Memo: Microeconomics 101: Supply, Demand and Convertibles.

Two principal factors determine whether an investment will be successful. The first is the
 intrinsic quality of the underlying entity being invested in. In short, how good is the
 venture you are buying a piece of or lending money to? It's better to invest in a good
 company than a bad one, ceteris paribus,

 [Ceteris paribus is a favorite term of economists. It means "everything else being equal,"
 and yes, at a given price, it's smarter to invest in a better company than a worse one. Of
 course, "everything else" never is equal, and you're not likely to be asked to choose
 between two assets of obviously different quality at the same price.]

 The second factor determining whether something will be a good investment is price.
 Ceteris paribus, given two assets of similar quality, it's better to pay less than more.

 Lots of investors take the approach of searching out companies with better products,
 managements, balance sheets and prospects. Many say they will only buy top quality
 assets.

 Our group does not have that luxury and, at any rate, pursuing museum quality assets
 would be antithetical to our philosophy. In convertibles, as in high yield bonds and
 certainly in distressed debt, our companies generally are not widely applauded or atop the
 ratings heap. Instead, they fall within a broad range in terms of quality.

 We are less concerned with the absolute quality of our companies than with the price we
 pay for whatever it is we're getting. In short, we feel "everything is triple-A at the right
 price". We have many reasons for following this approach, including the fact that
 relatively few people compete with us to do so. But we feel buying any asset for less than
 it's worth virtually assures success. Identifying top quality assets does not; the risk of
 overpaying for that quality still remains.

 What does all of this have to do with microeconomics? Well microeconomics is the
 study of the price-setting process, and much of price comes down to a matter of supply
 and demand.

 Ceteris paribus -- in this case, holding the level of supply constant -- price will be higher
 if there is more demand and lower if there is less. And that's why buying when everyone
 else is can, in and of itself, doom an investment. Many real estate investments made in
 the 1980s were ill-fated because excess demand from investors and too-easy credit
 induced builders to erect structures for which there are no tenants. Many of the later
 LBOs failed because excessive demand pushed prices for companies to levels which were

 too high given their prospects.

 Conversely, buying what no one else will buy at any price almost assures eventual
 success, and that leads to a discussion of the current level of demand for convertibles and
 its impact on their prices.

 I wrote this summer that convertibles tend to capture most of the upside performance of
 stocks while being significantly insulated from declines, and that such performance
 characteristics should be attractive given the high level of uncertainty today. What I
 didn't mention -- and what I want to point out now -- is that one of the factors contributing
 to the availability of bargains among convertibles is the relatively low level of demand for
 them.

 Here in 1992, strong demand has supported stock prices. Important among the
 components of that demand is the heavy flow into mutual funds of cash fleeing from low-
 yielding short term investments. But flows into convertible funds have been low, as
 indicated by the following clipping from Barron's. The figures are worth reviewing.

Convertible securities funds Between 1977 and 1984, the number of convertible mutual funds
don't get much respect. They had a
great 1991, when they rose 30%, was constant at seven, and at the end of that period their total assets
matching the S&P 500, and so far stood at the princely sum of $452 million. By the end of 1987 there
this year, they're up 3.5%, while the were thirty funds with assets of $5.8 billion, for a thirteen-fold
S&P is down a fraction. This
showing is impressive since increase. It can clearly be seen in retrospect that the strong flow of
convertibles, bond-equity hybrids, capital into convertibles in 1985-87 "poisoned the well" and led to a
are usually a more conservative loss of price discipline, to purchases of over-priced securities, and to
choice than stocks, trailing the S&P
in bull markets and falling less than poor performance.
stocks in down markets.
 Yet investors, normally quick Reaction was negative, and convertible mutual fund assets
to snap up anything offering better
yields than CDs and money-market dropped to $3.2 billion at year-end 1989 and only $2.2 billion
funds are staying away. Assets of today, down 62% from the 1987 level. If strong inflows are, as
convertible funds stood at $2.36 I believe, a precursor of poor performance (and vice versa),
billion on June 30, up just $100
million since the start of the year, then the outlook today should be excellent. Convertibles are
and way below their peak of $5.3 getting no respect and attracting no inflows. That leaves
billion just before the 1987 crash. bargains for those willing to act as contrarians. We hope you
 will consider convertibles an attractive way to hold an
 increased portion of your commitment to equities.