Memo: The Value of Predictions, or Where'd All This Rain Come From?.

Anyone who has been my client for long has heard from me on many occasions with
 negative comments about market forecasts. Now, I have decided to say at once all of the
 bad things I can think of about predictions.

 The Expected Value of a Forecast = Value of Correct Forecast x Probability of Being
 U

 Correct

 The motivation for trying to guess the direction of stocks or bonds is easy to understand.
 Observers have for years noted the wide price swings, calculated the value of a dollar
 invested at the bottoms and disinvested at the tops and compared the result against the
 value of a dollar invested under a "buy-and-hold" strategy. The difference is always
 P P

 temptingly large.

 The problem, however, comes from the fact that none of the forecaster's attempts to
 capture the swings have any value unless his or her predictions are right.

 But It's Hard to be Right
 U

 I agree with John Kenneth Galbraith. He said "We have two classes of forecasters: Those
 who don't know -- and those who don't know they don't know." If it was easy to predict the
 future, it would be easier to attain excellent investment results -- then maybe everyone could
 have above-average performance.

 Being Right With Average Consistency Doesn't Help
 U

 Let's face it: most of us have roughly the same ability to predict the future. And the trouble
 is that being right as often as the average forecaster won't produce superior results.

 Every investor wants results which are above average. In the institutional world,
 relative performance is the Holy Grail. Even elsewhere, the objective is to be the first
 to see the future -- and take the appropriate route to profit. It obviously doesn't help in
 these pursuits to be right only as often as others are.

 An Average Forecast Doesn't Help Even If It's Correct
 U

 Being "right" doesn't lead to superior performance if the consensus forecast is also right.
 For example, if the consensus forecast for real GNP growth is 5%, then stock prices will
 come to reflect that expectation. If you then conclude that GNP will grow at 5% and your
 expectation of rapid growth motivates you to buy stocks, the stocks you buy will be at prices
 which already anticipate such growth. If actual GNP growth at 5% is subsequently
 announced, stock prices probably will not jump -- because their reaction to 5% growth took
 place when the consensus forecast was arrived at. Instead, the best guess is that you will
 earn the normal risk-adjusted return for equities over your holding period. Bottom line:
 correct forecasts do not necessarily translate into superior investment results.

 U Above-Average Profits Come From Correctly Forecasting Extreme Events

 At least twenty-five years ago, it was noted that stock price movements were highly
 correlated with changes in earnings. So people concluded that accurate forecasts of earnings
 were the key to making money in stocks.

 It has since been realized, however, that it's not earnings changes that cause stock price
 changes, but earnings changes which come as a surprise. Look in the newspaper. Some
 days, a company announces a doubling of earnings and its stock price jumps. Other
 earnings doublings don't even cause a ripple -- or they prompt a decline. The key question
 is not "What was the change?" but rather "Was it anticipated?" Was the change accurately
 predicted by the consensus and thus factored into the stock price? If so, the announcement
 should cause little reaction. If not, the announcement should cause the stock price to rise if
 the surprise is pleasant or fall if it is not.

 This raises an important Catch 22. Everyone's forecasts are, on average, consensus
 forecasts. If your prediction is consensus too, it won't produce above-average
 performance even if it's right. Superior performance comes from accurate non-
 U

 consensus forecasts. But because most forecasters aren't terrible, the actual results
 U

 fall near the consensus most of the time -- and non-consensus forecasts are usually
 wrong. The payoff table in terms of performance looks like this:

 Forecast
 Consensus Non-Consensus
 Yes Average Above Average
 Accurate?
 No Average Below Average

 The problem is that extraordinary performance comes only from correct non-
 consensus forecasts, butnon-consensus forecasts are hard to make, hard to make
 U

 correctly and hard to act on . U

 When interest rates stood at 8% in 1978, most people thought they'd stay there. The interest
 rate bears predicted 9%, and the bulls predicted 7%. Most of the time, rates would have
 been in that range, and no one would have made much money.

 The big profits went to those who predicted 15% long bond yields. But where were those
 people? Extreme predictions are rarely right, but they're the ones that make you big
 money.

 UMost Forecasts are Extrapolations

 The fact is, most forecasters predict a future quite like the recent past. One reason is that
 things generally continue as they have been; major changes don't occur very often. Another
 is that most people don't do "zero-based" forecasting, but start with the current observation
 or normal range and then add or subtract a bit as they think is appropriate. Lastly, real "sea
 changes" are extremely difficult to foretell.

 That's why some of the best-remembered forecasts are the ones that extrapolated current
 conditions or trends but were wrong. Business Week may never live down "The Death of
 Equities" and "The Death of Bonds." At the mid-1990 lows, the press suggested that no
 one would ever buy a high yield bond again. In 1989, nobody thought the Cowboys would
 ever win without Tom Landry, or that the Lakers or 49ers would ever lose. Six years ago,
 the growth of both coasts' economies was considered assured, and the Rustbelt's suffering
 was expected to continue forever. Only two years ago, George Bush was a shoe-in.

 And that brings me to my subtitle: Where'd All This Rain Come From? The motivation for
 this memo came as I considered the extraordinary amount of precipitation the West has
 experienced this year -- and newspaper articles of a couple of months ago. According to
 the articles, the rings on old trees suggested that fifty year droughts might be the norm and
 the five year drought to date just the beginning.

 No one predicted the drought before it began -- when such a forecast might have helped.
 But just as it may have been about to end, the possibility of its long-term continuation was
 unveiled.

 Forecasters are Usually Most Wrong at the Extremes
 U

 It's at just such times --- such inflection points -- when accurate forecasts of change
 would be the most valuable but are the hardest to make.

 Take high yield bonds, for instance. In 1989 and 1990 they absorbed a continual beating as
 a series of negative developments came together. There was the recession, the failure of a
 number of the leveraged buyouts of the 1980s, enactment of excessively stringent
 regulation and the collapse of Drexel Burnham, Columbia Savings and Executive Life. All
 of this was tied together -- and accentuated -- by lots of overly negative publicity.

 Each development was another drip of "Chinese water torture." Each one put an end
 to some investor's ability to remain optimistic. And so each one eliminated a potential
 buyer, created a seller and moved prices lower.

 And after all, what is a market bottom? It's that moment when the last holder who will
 become a seller actually does so -- and thus the moment when prices hit levels that will
 prove to have been the lows. From that point on, with no one left to turn negative, a few
 pieces of good news or the arrival of a few buyers with belief in values are enough to turn
 a market.

 So you can see that the crescendo of negativism, the lowest prices and the greatest
 difficulty in predicting a rise all occur simultaneously. No wonder it's hard to profit
 from forecasting.

 U Extreme Forecasts are Hard to Believe and Act On

 Let's say the average investor was approached in October 1990 by someone who had
 enough imagination and courage (because that's what was needed) to make a positive case
 for high yield bonds. Would the investor have believed and bought? Probably not.

 Potentially-profitable non-consensus forecasts are very hard to believe and act on for the
 simple reason that they are so far from conventional wisdom. If a forecast was totally
 logical and easily accepted, then it would be the consensus forecast (and its profit potential
 would be much less).

 So if someone told you the U.S. auto makers' share of domestic market was going back to
 100% in five years, that would be a forecast with enormous implications for profit. But could
 you possibly believe it? Could you act on it?

 The more a prediction of the future differs from the present, (1) the more likely it is to
 diverge from the consensus forecast, (2) the greater the profit would be if it's right, and
 (3) the harder it will be to believe and act on it.

U You Have to Be Right About Timing Too

Not only must a profitable forecast have the event or direction right, but it must be
correct as too timing as well.

 Let's say you accepted the forecast that the Big Three would come to again own 100% of
 the U.S. market, and you bought the stocks in response. What if a year later their share was
 lower (and their stocks too)? Could you continue to hold out for the long term, or would
 your resolve weaken? What if their shares (and stocks) were unchanged five years later?
 Wouldn't you give up? And wouldn't that be just in time to see the prediction come true?

 In poker, "scared money never wins." In investing, it's hard to hold fast to an improbable,
 forecast is off base. As I was told years ago, "being too far ahead of your time is
 indistinguishable from being wrong."

 Incorrect Forecasts Can Cost You Money
 U

 As you know, we run our portfolios without reference to what we think the broad markets
 will do. An observer might think such behavior exposes us unduly to the fluctuations of the
 markets, and that to protect our clients we should actively go in and out of the markets
 based on what we think will happen.

 But remember, that will work only if our forecasts are right (and right more often than the
 consensus is right). I would argue that because forecasting is uncertain, it's safer not to try.

 For example, people hold equities because they find prospective long-term equity returns
 attractive. The average annual return on equities from 1926 to 1987 was 9.44%. But if you
 had gone to cash and missed the best 50 of those 744 months, you would have missed all of
 the return. This tells me that attempts at market timing are a source of risk, not
 protection.

It would be nice in anticipation of subsequent performance to be able to vary the amount
invested, but I think it's just too risky to try.

It Costs Money to Make Forecasts
U

As suggested above, the best thing might just be to settle for average long-term
performance in markets that are hard to predict.

Efficient marketeers think stock market forecasts are about as good as coin tosses. If you're
right half the time without bias, your forecasts won't help or hurt versus buy-and-hold. But

 forecasts are implemented through transactions which cost money. If you're right half
 the time and spend money to try, your performance will fall further below buy-and-
 hold results the more trading you do.

 Few People Revisit Their Forecasts
 U

 We always read "I think the stock market's going to go up." We never read "I think the
 stock market's going to go up, (and 8 out of my last 30 predictions were right)" or "I
 think the stock market's going to go up (and by the way I said the same thing last year
 and was wrong)." Can you imagine deciding which baseball players to hire without
 knowing their batting averages? When did you ever see a market forecaster's track
 record?

 Most Forecasts Don't Allow for Alternative Outcomes
 U

 I imagine that for most money managers, the process goes like this: "I predict the
 economy will do A. If A happens, interest rates should do B. With interest rates of
 B, the stock market should do C. Under that environment, the best performing sector
 should be D, and stock E should rise the most." The portfolio expected to do best
 under that scenario is then assembled.

 But how likely is E anyway? Remember that E is conditioned on A, B, C and D.
 Being right two-thirds of time would be a great accomplishment in the world of
 forecasting. But if each of the five predictions has a 67% chance of being right, then
 there is a 13% probability that all will be correct and the portfolio will perform as
 expected.

 And what if some other scenario unfolds? How will the portfolio do? How do the
 forecaster/investors make allowances in their portfolios for the likelihood that their
 predictions will prove incorrect?

 Lastly, Ask Yourself "Why Me?"
 U

 By this I mean "if someone has made a potentially valuable forecast with a high
 probability of being right, why is it being shared with you?"

 Think how profitable a correct market forecast could be. With very little capital, a good
 forecaster could make many times more in the futures market than in salary from an
 employer. Okay, let's say he likes to work for other people -- than why does his
 employer give his forecasts away rather than sell them? Maybe the thing to ask
 yourself is whether you would write out a check to buy the forecast you're considering
 acting on.

 Groucho Marx said "I wouldn't join any club that would have me as a member."
 Another formulation may be "I would never act on any forecast that someone would
 share with me." I'm not saying that no one has above-average forecasting ability.
 Rather, 'as one University of Chicago professor wrote in a paper years ago, such
 forecasters are more likely to be sunning themselves in Saint Tropez than going around
 entreating people to borrow their forecasts.

 * * *

 There is a bottom line for us on the subject of predictions regarding macro-scale
 events and widely-followed markets about which information is rather evenly
 disseminated (so-called efficient markets). In sum, we feel that:

 most forecasters have average ability

 consensus forecasts aren't helpful

 correct non-consensus forecasts are potentially very profitable but are also hard
 to make consistently and hard to bring yourself to act on

 forecasts cost money to implement and can be a source of risk rather than
 return

 The implications for us are clear. We will continue to eschew portfolio management
 based on forecasts of market trends, about which we think neither we nor anyone else
 knows much.

 Instead, we will continue to try to "know the knowable" -- that is, to work in markets
 which are the subject of biases, in which non-economic motivations hold sway, and in
 which it is possible to obtain an advantage through hard work and superior insight. We
 little bit about everything.

 Convertible securities, high yield bonds and distressed company debt are all markets in
 which market inefficiencies give rise to unusual opportunities in terms of return and risk.
 We will continue to exploit these opportunities in a manner which is risk-averse and
 non-reliant on macro-forecasts.

 . . . [predictions] ought to serve but for winter talks by the fireside.
 Sir Francis Bacon

 Random Thoughts on the Identification of Investment Opportunities
 U

 Howard S. Marks -- January 24, 1994

 1. No group or sector in the investment world enjoys as its birthright the
 promise of consistent high returns.

 There is no asset class that will do well simply because of what it is. An example
 of this is real estate. People said, "You should buy real estate because it's a hedge
 against inflation," and "You should buy real estate because they're not making any
 more." But done at the wrong time, real estate investing didn't work.

 2. What matters most is not what you invest in, but when and at what price.

 There is no such thing as a good or bad investment idea per se. For example, the
 selection of good companies is certainly not enough to assure good results -- see
 Xerox, Avon, Merck and the rest of the "nifty fifty" in 1974.

 Any investment can be good or bad depending on when it's made and what price
 is paid. It's been said that "any bond can be triple-A at a price."

 There is no security that is so good that it can't be overpriced, or so bad that it
 can't be underpriced.

 3. The discipline which is most important in investing is not accounting or
 economics, but psychology.

 The key is who likes the investment now and who doesn't. Future prices changes
 will be determined by whether it comes to be liked by more people or fewer
 people in the future.

 Investing is a popularity contest, and the most dangerous thing is to buy
 something at the peak of its popularity. At that point, all favorable facts and
 opinions are already factored into its price, and no new buyers are left to emerge.

 The safest and most potentially profitable thing is to buy something when no one
 likes it. Given time its popularity, and thus its price, can only go one way: up.

 Watch which asset classes they're holding conferences for and how many people
 are attending. Sold-out conferences are a danger sign. You want to participate in
 auctions where there are only one or two buyers, not hundreds or thousands.

 You want to buy things either before they've been discovered or after there's been
 a shake-out.

 4. The bottom line is that it is best to act as a contrarian.

 An investment that "everyone" knows to be undervalued is an oxymoron. If
 everyone knows it's undervalued, why haven't they bought it and driven up its
 price? And if they have bought, how can the price still be low?

 Yogi Berra said, "nobody goes to that restaurant; it's too popular." The equally
 oxy-moronic investment version is "Everybody likes that security because it's so
 cheap."

 5. Book the bet that no one else will.

 If everyone likes the favorite in a football game and wants to bet on it, the point
 spread will grow so wide that the team -- as good as it is -- is unlikely to be able to
 cover the spread. Take the other side of the bet -- on the underdog.

 Likewise, if everyone is too scared of junk bonds to buy them, it will become
 possible for you to buy them at a yield spread which not only overcompensates for
 the actual credit risk, but sets the stage for their being the best performing fixed
 income sector in the world. That was the case in late 1990.

 The bottom line is that one must try to be on the other side of the question from
 everyone else. If everyone likes it, sell; if no one likes it, buy.

 6. As Warren Buffet said, "the less care with which others conduct their affairs,
 the more care with which you should conduct yours." When others are
 afraid, you needn't be; when others are unafraid, you'd better be.

 It is usually said that the market runs on fear and greed. I feel at any given point
 in time it runs on fear or greed.
 U U

 As 1991 began, everyone was petrified of high yield bonds. Only the very best
 bonds could be issued, and thus buyers at that time didn't have to do any credit
 analysis -- the market did it for them. Its collective fear caused high standards to
 be imposed. But when investors are unafraid, they'll buy anything. Thus the
 intelligent investor's workload is much increased.

 7. Gresham's Law says "bad money drives out good." When paper money
 appeared, gold disappeared. It works in investing too: bad investors drive
 out good.

 When undemanding investors appear, they'll buy anything. Underwriting
 standards fall, and it gets hard for demanding investors to find opportunities
 offering the return and risk balance they require, so they're forced to the sidelines.

 Demanding investors must be willing to be inactive at times.