Memo: Risk in Today's Markets.

The ability of the stock market to react so harshly on February 4 to a small, Fed-
 mandated rise in interest rates, pushing the Dow down 96 points, suggests a lack of
 preparedness for negative developments. This prompts me to write to you about certain
 risks I feel may be present in the markets today.

 There are plenty of bullish arguments to be made about the prospects for the economy
 and corporate profits, and pundits to make them. While I will not devote space or time to
 them, I don't pretend they are nonexistent. And I won't deny the possibility that as an
 inherently cautious investor, I sometimes tend to overstate the negatives. What I want to
 do, however, is point out the degree to which I feel investors are behaving in a risk-
 tolerant manner today, and the implications for all of us.

 Two very powerful trends are at work, and have been for the last few years. The first is
 the decline in interest rates, which has carried rates to the lowest levels of the last thirty
 years and brought on great dissatisfaction with the returns available from low-risk fixed
 income investments. The second is the fabulous performance which was produced by
 virtually all investments in securities from 1991 to 1993. This was a period in which
 risk-taking was rewarded, and almost without exception very high returns went to those
 who took great risk.

 Put these two phenomena together and what do you have? I think the answer is an
 environment in which risk-taking is greatly encouraged.

 It is often said that the market runs on fear and greed, but I believe it usually runs on fear
 or greed; that is, at most points in time, one or the other predominates. Right now,
 because of the two trends cited above, greed is greatly elevated and, perhaps more
 importantly, fear is in short supply. Thus,

 - the money market investor, not content to earn 3% per year, (a negative return
 after taxes and inflation), turns to notes and bonds,

 - the bond investor, unhappy with returns at the shorter (read "low-risk") end of
 the curve, extends maturities,

 - the high grade bond investor drops down in quality,

 - the fixed income investor turns to equities,

 - the equity investor joins a hedge fund,

 - the domestic investor looks overseas,

 - the international investor emphasizes emerging markets, and

 - the traditional bond-and-stock investor searches for "alternative investments"
 likely to repeat the success of the LBO and bankruptcy funds.

 And why shouldn't they? The "stick" is the low prospective return offered in each
 investor's traditional bailiwick, and the "carrot" is the high returns earned recently in the
 riskier sectors. In brief, "why should I settle for 3% in T-bills when I can get double-digit
 returns in stocks?"

 There are numerous signs of infatuation with -- or non-questioning acceptance of -- the
 pursuit of high returns. The torrential inflow of dollars to mutual funds is one; I recently
 attended a conference at which a fund group representative said they were taking in $100
 million a day, 90% of it for foreign funds. The rising level of margin debt is another.
 Books on investing are reaching the best-sellers list. The names of hedge fund managers
 are almost household words.

 And that brings me, for purposes of illustration, to the subject of hedge funds. When I
 first got to know the money management community twenty years ago, only a handful of
 managers were good enough to command a share of the profits as compensation. Today,
 according to a recent article in Forbes, there are 800 hedge funds, and some people think
 being accepted by one of the big names is the chance of a lifetime.

 I think it's important to remember, though, the symmetrical nature of most investments:
 almost every sword is two-edged, and he who lives by a risky strategy may die by it.
 Investments which will make you a great deal of money when things go well but not lose
 you a lot when things go poorly are very rare, and their existence must presuppose
 extremely inefficient markets. With the average stock or bond returning 10-15% last
 year, how did some hedge funds make 70% or more? It was through bold and heavily-
 leveraged plays on macro-developments such as currency movements. What would have
 happened if the managers' calculations had proved wrong? The hedge fund manager I
 know with the best performance last year, up more than 100%, is said twice in his life to
 have lost 30% in one day! Do the hedge fund aficionados know how much risk they are
 taking? For how long are they tying up their money? How much do they know about the
 strategies being employed? As the Forbes article pointed out, the sum of the
 "information" most hedge fund investors receive is a quarterly paragraph reporting the
 rate of return.

 I am not complaining about the fact that there are hedge funds, or about their popularity.
 My point is simply that the level of risk borne by investors is being systematically raised,
 often unknowingly and at a time when many valuations are quite high.

 Comparison against low interest rates makes low earnings yields and dividend yields
 seem tolerable. Likewise, low rates increase the discounted present value of companies'
 future earnings as calculated by valuation models. For these reasons and others, many
 valuation indicators are at levels today which have proved dangerous and unsustainable
 in the past. Just as today's low interest rates are pushing investors toward riskier
 securities all along the "food chain" described above, however, this sword can also cut
 the other way.

 Warren Buffet said, in one of my favorite adages, "The less prudence with which others
 conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own
 affairs." Another adage I'm fond of is, "What the wise man does in the beginning, the
 fool does in the end." No course of investment action is either wise or foolish in and of
 itself. It all depends on the point in time at which it is undertaken, the price that is paid,
 and how others are conducting themselves at that moment.

 When everyone shrinks from a security because it's "too risky," the few who will buy it
 can do so with confidence, secure in the knowledge that the price has not been bid up,
 and in the likelihood that others will eventually outgrow their fear and jump on the
 bandwagon. Today, many prices have been bid up, and the bandwagon is already
 crowded with wild-eyed investors.

 It is my view that, first, few of the trends being pursued are at their beginnings; money
 has been flowing to today's popular sectors for at least a year or two. Second, while some
 may argue that prices are not forbiddingly high, it's almost impossible to argue that
 they're very low (or that the easy money hasn't already been made). Third, it seems to me
 that investors are accepting higher levels of risk throughout the system.

 Here's one illustration: Our cautious high yield investing saved clients a lot of money
 and heartache in 1989 and 1990. Because we apply in-depth, downside-conscious credit
 analysis to the high yield segment of the bond market, and define it narrowly, investors
 who were chastened by the last decline and don't want to bear the full brunt of the next
 one have hired us repeatedly in the years since. Now, however, we detect increased
 interest in more "eclectic" managers who will buy cash-paying or non-cash-paying bonds,
 going concerns or bankruptcies, convertible or straight bonds, and U.S. or foreign debt.
 This is just one example, near to us, of the new acceptability of risk -- at what just might
 be the wrong time.

 Too-low interest rates and too-high prices may prove at some point to have set the stage
 for a correction. If so, many of the riskier tactics to which recent trends are pushing
 investors will increase the extent to which that correction is felt. What course of action,
 then, would we argue for?

 We do not preach risk-avoidance. In fact, the knowing acceptance of risk for profit is
 at the core of much of what we do, and we feel there is an important role today for
 investing which is creative and adaptable. But we would take this opportunity to exhort
 you to review most critically the risk associated with your current and contemplated

 investments, and not to be among those who uncritically joined the trend toward risk.
 Whatever investment opportunities you decide on, we would encourage you to stress
 thorough appraisal of the risks entailed and cautious implementation.

 What is it that distinguishes the investment opportunities we'd suggest you pursue
 today? Not just the offer of high returns, but of returns which are more than
 proportionate to the risk entailed. The reason we champion inefficient markets (such
 as the high yield bonds, convertibles and distressed debt we're involved with) is that there
 exists by definition the potential, if exploited correctly, for an uncommonly favorable
 ratio of return to risk.

 Exploitation of opportunities in inefficient markets; insistence on preserving capital;
 refusal to pursue maximum return at the cost of maximum risk; specialization
 rather than dabbling; heavy emphasis on careful analysis; use of less-risky senior
 securities -- these themes have been the cornerstones of our approach over the years.
 They remain highly relevant and should continue to be pursued by all of us,
 especially at this point in the cycle.


Memo: "Risk in Today's Markets" Revisited.

Seven weeks ago, we put out a memorandum entitled "Risk in Today's Markets." Its
 essence was that the excellent returns earned in risky strategies through 1993 had eroded
 the fear factor in many markets and, coupled with the low yields available on
 conservative fixed income investments, had caused many investors to take "one giant step
 forward" on the risk curve. It also pointed out that just as declining rates had acted to
 raise prices and generate good returns, rate movements could cut the other way too.
 Lastly, it cautioned that when others are acting imprudently, driven by greed and without
 much fear, it is important that we raise our level of prudence.
 U U

 Unfortunately, the events of the intervening seven weeks have shown these observations
 to be in order. It is the purpose of this follow-up memo to review the developments of
 the intervening time period, attempting to make sense out of what has happened and
 searching for lessons that can be drawn. It's about understanding basics of investing
 which don't come and go.

 The current "correction" dates from February 4, when the Federal Reserve Bank raised
 short term interest rates a small amount in order to choke off inflationary thought and
 action. The air quickly came out of the bond markets, and the decline has been swift and
 deep. Although there were good days for a while as well as bad, the bond market never
 did recover its equilibrium once the rate rise had begun. The yield on the 30-year
 Treasury bond rose from 6.21% on January 28 to 7.40% on April 4, with its price falling
 14%, from 100.41 to 86.22. The decline spread quickly to other asset classes, and many
 investors in riskier strategies suffered harsh consequences.

 Some observers protest that economic and industry fundamentals continue to be
 favorable. But those positive developments had come to be valued too highly, and the
 resulting correction of valuations has been painful. It's important to note the first lesson,
 U

 then: successful investing has at least as much to do with what you pay for an asset as it
 does with what that asset's fundamentals are . U

 But why did the Fed's half-point bump up in short rates cause such devastation? First, of
 course, even a small step in terms of policy-related tightening implies there may be much
 more to come. More importantly though, the move suddenly took a big bite out of
 investors' optimism and reawakened their fear. Through January, investors acted as if
 nothing could go wrong. That first rate rise served to remind them that something could
 go wrong -- and had. Thus there has been a swing back from a euphoric extreme.

 After the Fed's raising of rates opened their eyes to the negatives, investors also took
 notice of the tensions with Korea, Japan and China, the strength of the yen, and

 uncertainty over Whitewater. At the same time, Mexico's stock market had its own
 correction, in reaction to the assassination of the leading presidential candidate. The
 important lesson to be learned here is that whenever market participants act as if nothing
 can go wrong (or right), that represents an extreme swing of psychology -- of the
 pendulum we wrote about in April 1991 -- that must be recognized for what it is and
 acted on. As Roseanne Rozanadana used to say on Saturday Night Live, "it's always
 something." Investment actions predicated on everything continuing to go well are
 U

 bound to fail . U

 If the spark that set off the decline in bond prices was the rate increase, why did the
 slump spread to so many other markets, including equities, foreign bonds, and
 commodities? Where were the benefits of strategic diversification? I would respond
 citing the following factors:

 - First, interest rates affect the value of everything. Investing consists of putting
 out money today in order to get more back at a later date. The "discounted
 present value" of the projected future proceeds varies inversely with the
 current level of interest rates. Simply put, when rates rise, the present value of
 a future dollar declines.

 - Another reason the impact of rates is broad stems from the fact that, as I was
 once told by sid Cottle (of Graham, Dodd and Cottle fame), "Investing is the
 discipline of relative selection." That is, the attractiveness of x is in part a
 function of the price of y. If bonds cheapen and thus come to promise higher
 prospective returns, stocks (or any other asset) will appear relatively less
 attractive at their old prices and thus must cheapen as well in order for their
 prospective returns to regain competitiveness versus those of bonds.

 - Further, it used to be, for example, that Americans determined the prices of
 U.S. stocks based on U.S. economic developments and Europeans determined
 the prices of European stocks based on European developments. These were
 local markets then, and they behaved differently. Today, investing is more
 globalized, and the prices of assets in different countries are determined by
 many of the same people, who may respond in common to fundamentals and
 psychology.

 - The last reason many assets have moved together is that in this particular
 episode, many hedge funds managers (who, as we will discuss later, appear to
 have had a disproportionate impact on recent events) were forced by their
 increased capital to invest aggressively in macro-trends spanning national
 borders. This small group of hyper-active investors may have hooked markets
 up to an unusual degree.

 For these reasons and others, asset prices may prove more highly interconnected than one
 had expected.

 * * *

 The most noteworthy feature of the recent correction may be the role of some prominent
 hedge fund managers. It was reported on February 25 that George Soros's Quantum Fund
 had lost $600 million on its yen position in one day. On April 1, we read that Michael
 Steinhardt had lost $1 billion of his $5 billion under management, due largely to the drop
 in bond prices, and that in the last two months, investors in Askin Capital Management's
 Granite Funds may have lost 100% of their $600 million capital in mortgage backed
 securities.

 Hedge funds occupied a meaningful part of our February 17 memo because they were felt
 to exemplify (to a power of ten) the risk-tolerant behavior of investors in general. Thus
 their subsequent experience can offer us some valuable and highly magnified insights.
 The important observations, applicable to all investment behavior, are as follows:

 - Words alone mean very little. Just as "portfolio insurance" turned out in the
 1987 Crash not to insure much, today's startling losses indicate that many
 "hedge funds" don't really hedge enough to make a difference, and that the
 Granite Fund, which described itself as "market neutral," was anything but.

 - Following from the above, we are reinforced in the belief that some investors
 don't know what their managers are doing, or how much risk they're taking.
 As one "fund of funds" which had invested in the Granite Fund told the Wall
 Street Journal, "It's unbelievable. This was touted as a low-risk, low-
 volatility, market-neutral investment. We were clearly misled." Only by
 really knowing what a manager does can you be sure he is right for you,
 but this often comes down to whether the manager truly understands his
 market, describes it accurately and does what he says he will -- things that
 can't be assessed from a marketing brochure.

 - Investment strategy really is a two-edged sword, and he who lives by an
 aggressive strategy usually can die by it. It proved possible for investors to
 become too comfortable with volatility -- when it was on the upside and called
 "profit." Volatility is a lot less enjoyable when it turns to the downside, but
 it's the flip side of the same coin.

 - The outcome can actually be worse than symmetrical when incentive fees are
 involved, as Jan Greer of William Simon & Sons points out. That's because
 while hedge fund managers took 20% of last year's big profits, they won't
 replace a like percentage of subsequent losses. Usually, due to the
 peculiarities of the math, if a portfolio is up 50% one year and down 33% the
 next, it's back to where it started. But if the manager takes a fifth of the 50%
 gain in year 1, a 33% decline in year 2 will leave it 7% under water.

 - As an experienced corporate director told Forbes a few years ago, "I no longer
 expect people to do what I tell them to do; I've learned they only do what I
 pay them to do." But while a hedge fund manager may have his reputation
 and some capital at stake, as to fees he is in a heads-we-win-tails-you-lose
 position. For a manager who is paid a percentage of the profits on a one-year-
 at-a-time basis, a single year of investing aggressively enough at the right time
 can make him rich for life. Thus managers should be entrusted with
 incentive fee arrangements only if they can truly be counted on to add
 significant value which is not accompanied by proportionate risk.
 U U

 - Volatility + leverage = dynamite. Only now do we see articles pointing out
 (after the fact) that if a hedge fund borrows short to buy long Treasury bonds
 with 6% "down," a 1% rise in the bonds' yield will wipe out 100% of the
 equity in the position.

 - When volatile securities have been bought on margin, sale may be forced
 if the investor can't come up with more capital during a decline. This is a
 big part of what put the Granite Fund under. If you own securities without
 borrowing, you may experience a price drop -- which will hopefully prove
 temporary -- but you can't be put out of the game.

 - One characteristic of many inefficient markets is some measure of illiquidity.
 Thus when sales are forced in a chaotic market -- whether by margin calls,
 client withdrawals or cold feet -- they can have the effect of contributing to or
 exacerbating the decline. Often in this environment, the manager's choices for
 liquidation will be limited to his highest quality and most marketable
 holdings. In this way, forced sales can easily contribute to a deterioration
 of portfolio quality. When the Granite Fund received margin calls, its
 manager could only get reasonable bids for securities which perform well
 when rates rise. Selling them cost the fund its hedge.

 The prominent hedge funds that attracted the recent attention -- favorable in 1993 and
 less so this year -- are multi-billion-dollar entities which, because of their size, often
 invest not in the undervalued micro-situations on which their early records were built, but
 in macro-phenomena all around the world. Thus they provide an important object lesson
 to which we want to point.

 These funds are run by managers who pursue aggressive returns through the use of highly
 leveraged and thus volatile positions in large markets, some of which, such as Treasury
 bonds, are relatively efficient. In this sense, they represent the opposite of what we
 espouse.

 Our approach emphasizes the low-risk exploitation of inefficient markets, as
 opposed to aggressive investment in efficient ones. We restrict ourselves to markets
 where it is possible to know more than other investors. We put avoiding losses ahead of
 the pursuit of profits. And we do not seek to employ leverage.

 Inefficient markets must by definition entail illiquidity and occasional volatility, but we
 feel unleveraged and expert investment in them offers investors with staying power the
 best route to high returns without commensurately high risk.

 And we also feel investors who are capable of observing clinically can learn some
 valuable lessons from the current episode. We look forward to learning along with you.


Memo: "How Does an Inefficient Market Get That Way?".

In an efficient market, the actions of intelligent, informed, diligent and objective
 investors cause assets to be priced fairly based on the available information such that
 their prospective returns are in proportion to their risk. No bargains are available, and the
 only way to increase expected return is to take on more risk.

 But in an inefficient market, this process breaks down. The prerequisites for efficiency
 are not fully satisfied, and thus prices are able to diverge from what they "should" be.
 Some assets become overpriced and others underpriced. Profits can be earned by
 applying skill, not just for bearing risk. It becomes possible to consistently achieve
 superior risk-adjusted returns.

 But how does a market get that way? There are many possible reasons. Maybe most
 investors ignore the market niche because it is little known. Perhaps information is
 skimpy or unevenly disseminated. Market infrastructure may be under-developed, so
 trading difficulties scare investors away. Maybe there's no trade reporting, so Seller A
 doesn't know what B got just a few minutes earlier and settles for less. The list of
 possible reasons goes on and on, but we have our own favorite: Investors fail to act
 objectively and dispassionately.

 An efficient market must be unbiased. That is, the participants must be motivated just by
 economics and willing to either buy or sell depending on price. If every owner wants to
 (or must) sell a given good and won't become a buyer no matter how low the price goes,
 the price of that good can fall below the "fair" level and it will become possible to find
 bargains. Conversely, prices can go too high when everyone wants to own something . . .
 whether it's tulip bulbs, South Sea pearls or nifty-fifty stocks.

 And that brings us to the high yield bond market which remains, in our opinion,
 decidedly inefficient. High yield bonds continue to offer 350-400 basis points more yield
 than "riskless" Treasury bonds to compensate for the risk of losing 50-150 basis points
 per year to credit problems. And high yield bonds have the best performance record of
 any major sector of the fixed income universe for virtually every period through today.
 One would certainly expect these facts to attract buyers and raise prices.

 In 1984, I was sure this market would become efficient in five years. But it hasn't done
 so ten years later, despite the high historic and prospective returns. Why haven't enough
 buyers stepped forward to eliminate the excessive risk premium, render these bonds
 fairly priced and correct the inefficiency?

 The answer, we feel, is simple: investors continue to be unfairly prejudiced against
 them. Not every investor, clearly, but enough big players to create a buyers' market and
 tilt the opportunity in favor of those who are willing to participate.

 Prove it, you say? Well, this memo was occasioned by an article in "Pensions &
 Investments" reporting consultant SEI's recommendation that pension plan sponsors
 invest 10% to 30% of their fixed income portfolios in high yield bonds. As I went
 through the article, my reaction was that it was a great selling piece for our market sector
 -- not just SEI's recommendation, but what the article demonstrated about investor
 attitudes.

 According to the article, SEI feels "a sponsor could add about 20 basis points of return
 without adding risk by putting 10% of its fixed income portfolio in high yield, or junk,
 bonds." And that's after SEI "tried to be as conservative as possible in its assumptions."
 I'm sold! But the article goes on to show how a market can be biased against an asset
 class:

 . . . High yield is perceived as a way to add diversification, but is not well-
 received by clients. "Not a lot of our clients are opting to use them . . . .
 We work with some clients who just plain don't want them in their
 portfolio." (Callan)

 Because of the negative publicity surrounding high yield bonds around the turn of
 the decade, plan sponsors either are wary of investing in them, or are afraid of
 being associated with them. (Pensions & Investments)

 Some plan sponsors may be limited by plan guidelines to investment-grade
 securities, . . . Other sponsors may be wary of junk bonds because of the market's
 well-publicized collapse in 1989 and 1990, and the securities' association with
 Michael Milken and the now-defunct bond house Drexel Burnham Lambert.
 (SEI)

 If we're going to worry about a collapse, I hope it'll be one looming ahead, not one which
 occurred five years ago. The asset class that collapsed in the past is likely to be cheap,
 not to be riding a crest of popularity and thus heading for a fall.

 But too many investors drive looking in the rear-view mirror. As someone at my former
 place of employment once told clients, "We're buying the oils; they've been good to us."
 We'd rather buy what has performed badly or is the subject of negative bias and thus is
 cheap. We feel strongly that high yield bonds qualify today, and we'd be glad to talk
 more about them, or about the opportunities in other areas.