Memo: The Value of Predictions II (or "Give That Man a Cigar").

In a February 1993 memo entitled "The Value of Predictions," I expressed my negative opinion of
 attempts to predict the macro-future. Now, to follow up, I've examined a handful of semi-annual
 Wall Street Journal economic surveys I've been stashing away. Please note that this was not a
 scientific study; my sample was limited to the contents of my desk drawer. The conclusions are
 interesting nevertheless.

 First, can accurate forecasts be made? The record shows the predictions of the Journal's
 average "expert" to have added little value in terms of predicting the future. The table below
 shows the wide margin by which the consensus missed the mark.

 90-day bill rate
 U Yen/$
 U

 December '93

 December '94

 December '94

 June '95

 June '95

 December '95

 On average, these predictions were off by 15%. In the three sets of half-year data I had
 available, the average expert forecaster couldn't even get closer than 96 basis points when
 attempting to predict the level of long rates six months out! And missing long rates by 96 basis
 points implies missing the price of the $1000 long bond by $120.

 Second, are these forecasts of any value? My limited survey shows the average forecast
 published by the Journal has not been helpful. The key isn't whether the forecasters accurately
 predicted the level of the parameters but, (since you make money by anticipating change), whether
 they were right about the likelihood of significant change and its direction. That these forecasts
 weren't of value can be seen clearly in the following table, which looks at changes rather than
 levels.

 90-day bill rate
 U Yen/$
 U

 December '93 12-Month

 December '94 6-Month

 December '94 l2-Month

 June '95 6-Month

 June '95 l2-Month

 December '95 6-Month

 As the table shows, it's not that the forecasters were always wrong; when there was little change,
 they were often right. It's just that in times of major changes, (when accurate forecasts would've
 helped one make money or avoid a loss), the forecasters completely missed them. In the years
 reviewed, the expert consensus failed to predict all of the major developments. Included here are
 interest rate increases of 1994 and 1996, the rate decline of 1995, and the massive gyrations of the
 dollar/yen relationship. In summary, there simply hasn't been much correlation between predicted
 changes and actual changes.

 Third, where do these forecasts come from? The answer is simple: If you want to see a high
 correlation, take a look at the relationship between current levels and predicted future levels.
 The table below, which does just that, shows a remarkably better "fit."

 90-day bill rate
 U Yen/$
 U

 Now that's a correlation! On average, the predictions were within 5% of the levels which
 prevailed at the time they were made. When rates were low, the experts predicted that they would
 stay low; after rates rose, they were expected to stay high. High dollar/yen exchange rates brought
 high dollar/yen forecasts, and vice versa. There's no question about it: each consensus forecast
 represented a near-extrapolation of then-current levels. Like many forecasters, these economists
 were driving with their eyes firmly fixed on the rearview mirror.

 On the one occasion, in 1994, when the consensus of forecasters was bold enough to venture a
 prediction for short rates which differed substantially from the then-current levels, they got even
 the direction of the subsequent change wrong. The problem is that, rather than extrapolate the
 year-end 1994 level, they extrapolated the 1994 trend, which reversed in 1995.

 In general, we can say with certainty that these forecasters were much better at telling us
 where things stood than where they were going. This bears out the old adage that "it's
 difficult to make accurate predictions, especially with regard to the future." The
 corollary is also true: predicting the past is a snap.

 And using the prevailing levels to predict the future would have been just about as effective as
 the average forecast. The prevailing levels differed from the future levels by 16% on average,
 while the consensus prediction erred by 15%.

 Fourth, can't anyone get it right? It is absolutely not true that nobody makes accurate
 forecasts. Every six months, when the Journal reports on a new survey of forecasts, it takes the
 opportunity to cite the forecaster in the previous survey who came closest to accurately
 predicting the three financial indicators shown above plus the change in GNP and CPI. It prints
 the winner's picture and lauds the unique insights which led to the accurate forecasts.

 And the truth is that the winner's accuracy is often startling, as shown in the following table with
 regard to what we consider the most important of the indicators, the interest rate on the 30-year
 Treasury bond. Each time, the winner's forecast was quite close to the actual and much more
 accurate than the consensus.

 Susan Sterne James Smith Michael Cosgrove
 Economic Anal. Assoc. Univ. of No. Caro. The Econoclast
 U

 Looking at the winning forecasters' results shown above, one might even be tempted to
 conclude that accurate predictions are in fact achievable.

 Fifth, then why do I remain so negative on forecasters' ability? The important thing isn't
 getting it right once. It's doing so consistently.

 The table below shows two things that might make you think twice about heeding the winners'
 forecasts. First, they generally failed to make accurate predictions in surveys other than the one
 they won (shown in bold). And second, in the surveys they didn't win, their forecasts were much
 more wrong than even the inaccurate consensus half the time.

 U

 As the Journal itself pointed out in reviewing the results of the December 1995 survey:

 . . .by giving up the comfort of the consensus, those on the fringes of the
 economic prediction game often end up on the winning or losing end. James
 Smith of the University of North Carolina and Susan Sterne of Economic
 Analysis Associates, the winners six months and one year ago, respectively,
 didn't even get the direction of interest rates right this time. The same
 happened last year to

 (Emphasis added)

 An interesting pattern emerges from the data shown above. In all three surveys, Ms. Sterne's
 prediction was the lowest of the three experts and Mr. Cosgrove's was the highest. One way to
 get to be right is to always be bullish or always be bearish -- if you hold a fixed view long
 enough, you may be right sooner or later. And if you're always an outlier, you're likely to
 eventually be applauded for an extremely unconventional forecast that correctly foresaw what no
 one else did. But that doesn't mean your forecasts are regularly of any value.

 A lot of adages fit this data. I've heard it said that "even a blind squirrel occasionally finds an
 acorn," "a stopped clock is right twice every day" and "if you put enough monkeys in a room
 with typewriters, eventually one of them will write the Bible."

 I feel the sum of this data shows that it's possible to be right about the macro-future once in a
 while, but not on a regular basis. It doesn't do any good to possess a survey of 64 forecasts that
 includes a few which are accurate; you have to know which ones they are. And if the accurate
 forecasts each six months are made by different economists, it's hard to believe there's much
 value in the collective forecasts.

 By the way, there's an important analogy to be drawn here: Efficient market advocates don't say
 it's impossible to beat the market; lots of people do it every year. (Remember, half the
 observations in any sample are above the median.) They only assert that no one can consistently
 do so in risk-adjusted terms.

 Finally, can macro-forecasts be used to gain an advantage? I pointed out in my 1993
 memo that most of the time, you can't get superior results with inaccurate forecasts or with
 accurate forecasts that reflect the consensus. (This is because the consensus view of the future
 is already embedded in the price of an asset at the time you buy it). To bring above average
 profits, a forecast generally must be different from the consensus and accurate.

 But, as I described in 1993, it's difficult with regard to a non-consensus view of the future (1) to
 believe in it, (2) to act on it, (3) to stand by it if the early going suggests it's wrong, and (4) to be
 right. Those who invest based on fringe predictions are often wrong to an embarrassing and
 costly extent.

 At Oaktree, we don't spend our time attempting to guess at the future direction of economies,
 rates and markets, things about which no one seems to know more than anyone else. Rather, we
 devote ourselves to specialized research in market niches which others find uninteresting,
 unseemly, overly complicated, beyond their competence or not worth the effort and risk. These
 are the inefficient markets in which it is possible to gain a "knowledge advantage" through the
 expenditure of time and effort. They also happen to be markets in which micro factors relating
 to companies, assets and securities matter the most. This is where it's possible to find bargains,
 and only bargain purchases can be counted on to dependably lead to returns which are above-
 average relative to the risk entailed. We say "we try to know the knowable" -- and that
 doesn't include the macro-future.


Memo: Will It Be Different This Time?.

One of my favorite articles, "Why This Market Cycle Isn't Different" by Anise C. Wallace,
 appeared in the New York Times. It skeptically recounted the rationale being advanced why a
 traditional correction of the stock market's meteoric rise need not take place. Among the reasons
 cited were (1) the outlook for continued economic growth, given that the economy had learned
 how to correct itself painlessly, (2) hope for return to a gold standard, (3) optimism regarding
 world peace, (4) the likelihood of continued buying of U.S. stocks by foreign investors piling up
 dollars with no better place to go, and (5) the fact that stocks were not overvalued compared to
 other assets, which had also appreciated.

 This was the optimists' argument. But its flaws became apparent almost immediately after the
 by 30%. So much for the bulls' predictions!!

 And so much for predicting a future markedly different from the past. The article pointed out that
 some of the arguments did have some truth to them, but it also cited John Templeton's assessment
 that people who say things will be different are right only one time out of five. The hard part is
 knowing which times those are.

 All of this was called to mind ten days ago by an article on the front page of the Wall Street
 Journal. Entitled "The Business Cycle is Tamed, Many Say, Alarming Others," it recounts the case
 currently being made for this remaining a continuous, recession-free economic expansion. As its
 lead paragraph says,

 From boardrooms to living rooms and from government offices to trading
 floors, a new consensus is emerging: The big, bad business cycle has been
 tamed.

 The current expansion, at 67 months, has already far exceeded the postwar average.
 Nevertheless, 51 of the 53 "top economists" surveyed by Blue Chip newsletter (my favorite
 experts and the subject of my July 22, 1996 memo) predict growth next year of 1.5% or more.
 And the University of Michigan survey finds that among consumers, more expect five more good
 years than expect bad times to emerge.

 The Chairman of Sears states "There is no natural law that says we have to have a recession."
 According to Amoco's Chairman, "I don't see any reason to believe [the recovery] can't go on until
 the turn of the century." Sara Lee's CEO says "I don't know what could happen to make a cyclical
 downturn." (For a few more quotes like these, see page three.)

 The article goes on to cite the arguments behind this year's version of "this time it'll be different."
 First, because the recovery has been wishy-washy to date, there is no "boom" to "bust." Second,
 today's enhanced pace of business has been accommodated more through flexibility and efficiency
 than through brick-and-mortar expansion and inventory building. Third, the service economy has
 largely supplanted the more cyclical manufacturing sector. Fourth, globalization of the economy
 will enhance geographic diversification and provide new sources of demand for goods.

 Similarly, we all hear lots of reasons why today's high stock market valuations aren't dangerous and
 no correction is required. These include the inevitability of 401(k) inflows; the steadfastness of
 mutual fund investors; the shortage of stocks which will result from corporate buybacks (in 1987,
 the shortage was going to result from the privatization of companies via leveraged buyouts); the
 vast opportunities presented by technology and the Internet; the improved profit stance of business
 after years of downsizing and cost-cutting; the fiscal responsibility imposed on government and the
 resulting favorable outlook for the deficit; and the irrelevance of dividend yield and other
 traditional valuation parameters. As always, the list appears to grow longer as higher levels are
 reached on the Dow.

 But I recoil any time I hear a prediction that trees will grow to the sky, or that centuries of
 history are irrelevant. When I hear people say the valuation measures of the past no longer
 matter, I think John Kenneth Galbraith put it well, stating that in a speculative episode,

 Past experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the
 primitive refuge of those who do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible
 wonders of the present. ( A Short History of Financial Euphoria , Viking, 1990)
 U U

 And I feel cyclicality is one of the few constants in the economy and markets. Cycles are the
 result of human behavior, herd instinct and the tendency to psychological excesses, and these
 things are unlikely to evaporate. Galbraith cites "the extreme brevity of the financial memory" in
 explaining why markets are able to move to extremes of euphoria and panic. And few adages have
 been borne out as often as "What the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end." It
 is rare for trends to be curtailed at a reasonable point before swinging to the excesses from which
 they invariably correct.

 Today, there are some signs just as worrisome as the bullish arguments are constructive. We
 detect the decline of skepticism and discipline and the aggressive extension of credit which
 regularly precede corrections. Capacity expansion has been strong in some industries, and
 construction seems about to resume. Consumer debt, default and bankruptcy are all at high levels.
 Prices being paid in acquisitions are once again high. There's too much money chasing too few
 deals. The stock market is exhibiting unusually narrow "breadth" (e.g., with the Dow up 76 points
 today to 6547, another record, half of all stocks were unchanged or down). Every cocktail party
 guest and cab driver just wants to talk about hot stocks and funds.

 And there's a final factor I want to mention: capitulation. This is the word I use to describe
 investor behavior late in cycles. Investors hold to their convictions as long as they can, but when
 the economic and psychological pressures become irresistible, they surrender and jump

 on the bandwagon. Given years of above-average performance by stocks, many investors are now
 increasing their commitments to equities. A few weeks ago, we learned of an extreme example, a
 foundation whose long-term 80% allocation to bonds had been shown to be sorely out of step, so it
 threw in the towel and went 100% to equities. Capitulation like this adds to the strength of the trend
 (for a while), but it also increases the level of danger. First, it indicates the advanced age of the cycle;
 second, it can cause investors to take positions for which they are unsuited; and third, when the last
 investor has taken his or her maximum equity position, who's left to power a subsequent rise?

 As you know, we don't consider ourselves good macro-forecasters (or even people who believe in
 forecasting). So we certainly are in no position to say when the recession or market pullback will
 proved wrong if we say cyclicality is not at an end but rather is endemic to all markets, and that
 every up leg will be followed by a down leg.

 In 1988, when we marketed our first distressed debt fund, the greatest obstacle we faced was a
 somewhat widespread belief that there would be no recession and we'd have nothing to do. The theory
 then was that because of "rolling corrections" of individual industries and regions, the entire economy
 would never again decline all at once. The Times's 1987 article said that according to some investors,
 "the prolonged slow-growth environment would not necessarily be followed by a recession." But, of
 course, a recession did develop in 1990 (one of the worst since the Depression), we got very busy in
 distressed debt, and that 1988 fund produced a gross return of 29% per year.

 So we conclude that most of the time, the future will look a lot like the past, with both up cycles and
 down cycles. There is a right time to argue that things will be better, and that's when the market is on its
 backside and everyone else is selling things at giveaway prices. It's dangerous when the market's at
 record levels to reach for a positive rationalization that has never held true in the past. But it's been
 done before, and it'll be done again.

 "There will be no interruption of our present prosperity." 1P

 must necessarily diminish and recede in the future." 2P

 "We are only at the beginning of a period that will go down in history as the golden age." 3 P

 __________________________

 P P Myron E. Forbes, President, Pierce Arrow Motor Car Co., January 1, 1928
 P E.H.H. Simmons, President, New York Stock Exchange, January 12, 1928
 P

 P P lrving T. Bush, President, Bush Terminal Co., November 15, 1928
 P

 source: Oh Yeah? , Viking Press, 1932
 U U

 * * *

 In the interest of full disclosure, I want to mention here that I've been contemplating the
 possibility that my views on these matters are too cautious and short-sighted. My conclusion is
 that I am a product of my experience.

 Many of us were raised by parents whose views were heavily influenced by living through the
 Depression. Likewise, I was baptized under fire during my first five years in the investment
 industry, when the shares of the best companies in America -- the "nifty-fifty" -- dropped 70% to
 90% in the early 1970s and then the entire market lost roughly half its value in 1973-74.

 You have to be more than forty-five years old to have been in the business during that last real
 bear market in 1973-74. I've heard it said that today "everyone over forty is terrified by the
 market, but most of the people running money are under forty." There's a lot of truth to this, and
 it's interesting to note that relatively few of today's investment professionals are in their mid-to-
 late forties, a scarcity caused by the tough times in the industry in the 1970s and the resultant
 lack of hiring.

 Maybe I spend too much of my time worrying about the next bear market; I've been conditioned
 to do that. And maybe I'm wrong. But Oaktree's clients needn't worry that we'll manage their
 portfolios based on the assumption that a correction is imminent. We believe strongly that "it's
 one thing to have an opinion but quite another thing to act as if it's right." So while we take
 some defensive steps in portfolios as our caution grows, we're always fully invested and just as
 ready for a market rise as we are for a decline.

 The bottom line for us is that if Oaktree can continue to match and beat the indices in our
 inefficient markets despite an overlay of protection against risk that could prove
 unneeded, I think we're adding real value. That has been our history, and it certainly
 remains our goal.