Memo: Who Knew?.

For years, I've railed against people who claim they know what the future holds. And yet,
in my last memo on September 3, 1997, I may actually have made a correct prediction, as
follows:

 What could cause a market decline? A drop in investor confidence -- perhaps the
 commodity that's most freely available today -- would likely be the key, but the
 war in Korea), economic (tight money, slowing profit growth) or internal to the
 market (competition from bonds at higher interest rates, discovery of a fraud), but
 it's most likely to be something that no one has anticipated -- including us.

Just the next month, the "Asian meltdown" came into full bloom, with profound
ramifications for stock and bond markets all around the world.

What this shows is that it's easy to be right about the future . . . if you restrict your
predictions to two: (1) something significant is bound to happen eventually, and (2) we
never know what it'll be.

 * * *

Speaking of what we can know, I was in a client's office in December, cautioning that I
thought we would never reside for long in the investment nirvana of the new paradigm
where inflation, interest rates, economic growth, expanding profits and rising stock prices
stay properly aligned. He said, "I'd think a self-professed non-forecaster like you would
never say, 'never'."

My response was, "Maybe it's a result of my sobering experience in the 1970s, but there are
forever. Investors' fondest hopes will never fail to be dashed eventually. Some
unpleasant surprises will never fail to arise."

This sounds terribly negative, as if I think good things are rare and only bad things are
bound to happen. But if you think it over, I hope you'll conclude I'm not what our Kevin
Clayton calls a "Negative Ned."

I read decades ago that every bull market has three stages:

 The first, when a few far-sighted people begin to believe that some
 improvement is possible,

 the second, when most investors come to agree that improvement is actually
 underway, and

 the third, when everyone believes everything will get better forever.

If you're going to succeed at all in timing cycles, the only possible way is to act as a
contrarian: catch some opportunities at the bottom, let your optimism abate as prices rise,
and hold relatively few exposed positions when the top is reached. To find bargains at the
bottom, you don't have to think that things will get better forever; you just have to
remember that every cycle will turn up eventually, and that prices are lowest when it looks
like it won't. But it's just as important to avoid holding at (and past) the top, and the key is
not to succumb to the popular delusion that "trees will grow to the sky."

What I think is important is that, although markets can be underpriced or overpriced and
yet go on for months or years to become even more so, it's most prudent to be optimistic
when no one else is, and it can be highly profitable. But it can be dangerous to be
optimistic when everyone else is, and very costly.

 * * *

All of the above might be interesting, but of course the crucial question is "Where do we
stand today?"

Certainly, the secret's out: something bad can happen -- and has. We see Asian currencies,
economies and perhaps social orders in free-fall. But what strikes me is the fact
that the major U.S. equity indices are just about where they were when I wrote in
September. Our market justifiably benefits from a flight to quality, and it is true that many
of our companies may not be directly affected by the Asian turmoil. But are the people
pricing stocks near all-time highs too optimistic, too pessimistic, or just right?

What amazes me is that even though people say "the market abhors uncertainty," it has
been doing rather well despite the large number of things that no one can pretend to fully
understand.

1) How bad will the Asian crisis get, how far will it spread, what solution is possible, and
what will be the second- and third-order ramifications on our economy and companies?
Will governments topple? Will contracts be abrogated? How many people who are
sanguine about U.S. equities today can answer these questions concerning Asia
(and how can you be the former if you can't do the latter)?

2) Most accounts of the developments in Asia touch on overcapacity, on stiffened
competition from Asian exporters whose prices are now lower in dollar terms because of
devaluations, and on the possibility of deflation in the U.S. Even Chairman Greenspan
thought enough of deflation to mention it last Saturday. And yet, who really knows what
these things might mean for economies and companies around the world? In short, is
deflation good or bad? How can you feel comfortable if you can't answer these questions?

3) A reading of the newspapers in the last few months discloses a steady drumbeat of
earnings disappointments and revived restructurings and layoffs. How strong is our
economy? Are cost increases putting pressure on profits? How much will earnings growth
slow down?

These are all questions that indicate that negatives are present in our investment
environment. But they're always there -- sometimes obvious and sometimes not.

Prices near highs and optimism in bloom -- that's a dangerous combination, especially with
perceived risk on the rise. Peter Bernstein wrote around 1979 that "The great buying
realized." And yet many of today's investors have only known success, and few appear
seriously chastened by recent developments. This permits me to conclude that this is not a
buying opportunity and, although no collapse need be imminent, the stock market's
best days are behind it for a while.

Or as our client, Mike Herman, wrote in the annual report of the Kaufman Foundation, the
Investment Committee of which he chairs: ''It truly doesn't get much better than this -- a
statement which in and of itself should inspire caution, not complacency. If things can't
get much better, logic suggests they can only stay the same or get worse."

My bottom line is that while the best bargains are found when it looks like things can't get
better, bargains are hard to find when things can only get worse -- especially if few people
seem to know it. That's why Oaktree always tries to keep in mind where we stand, to buy
avidly only when fear is at a high level, and to utilize asset classes, strategies and tactics
that prepare us for the negatives that are always lurking out there somewhere.


Memo: Genius Isn't Enough (and Other Lessons from Long-Term Capital Management).

On September 24, The Wall Street Journal carried an excellent front-page article regarding the
inability of the "crack team" of economic policy makers led by Messrs. Rubin and Summers to
halt the slide of the emerging markets' economies and currencies. Heading the column was a
quotation from David Halberstam's account of the U.S. involvement in Vietnam, The Best and
The Brightest:

 belief that sheer intelligence and rationality could answer and
 solve everything.

Across the page -- just a few columns away -- was another excellent article, this time on the
subject of Long-Term Capital Management. I think the Halberstam quotation is just as relevant
to this one.

The saga of Long-Term Capital is well known by now. My purpose here is not to discuss the
facts, although I'll do so briefly, but rather the lessons to be learned. Long-Term was the
creation of former Salomon Brothers vice chairman John Meriwether, along with several other
well-respected ex-Salomon Partners, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, and a pair
of Nobel prize winners. It was formed to engage in bond arbitrage, the systematic exploitation
of bond mispricings. By purchasing undervalued bonds and selling short overvalued bonds
affected by similar factors, gains would be earned consistently and without exposure to market
risk. The intellect and accomplishments of Long-Term's managers, and its strong annual
returns, compelled investors to invest and freed them from feeling they had to understand
exactly what the fund did. The fund's approach may not have been fully delineated to
investors, its portfolio was never disclosed, and the managers' actions were not even reported
after the fact; 40% annual returns were enough to keep investors satisfied.

You've probably heard us say that bond investing is a game of inches. So then how was Long-
Term able to earn returns of 40% or more most years? The answer was leverage: they
borrowed enough money to buy bonds worth many times their equity. It is now known that
Long-Term's general partners' cash equity was increased through borrowings to roughly $1.5
billion and paired with $3.1 billion of limited partners' capital. This $4.6 billion of equity was
somehow sufficient to enable Long-Term to hold investments totaling about $150 billion and
long and short positions in derivatives believed to have had an aggregate "notional value" of
$1.25 trillion!

When your investments so greatly exceed your equity, it doesn't take a big drop in security
prices to wipe out that equity. Between August 1 and late September, price declines on all
bonds other than Treasurys, appreciation on Treasury bonds (which Long-Term had shorted to
offset its exposure to interest rates on "long" positions), and declines on equities (it had
invested heavily in takeover stocks) were sufficient to erase 90% of Long-Term's equity.
Further, if margin calls had caused its vast positions to be dumped on the world's unsteady
markets, the proceeds might have been less than the amounts borrowed, causing write-offs at
the banks and brokers that had provided Long-Term's credit and perhaps destabilizing them.
Incredibly, articles about Long-Term describe its possible forced liquidation with phrases like
29). These conditions gave rise to the restructuring and additional investment agreed to by 14
financial institutions. That's the background; now for the lessons.

The techniques employed at Long-Term have been variously described as "rocket science" or
"black box." Computers were used to scan thousands of securities to detect instances where
historic relationships had been violated and profit could be earned on the return to the norm;
these are referred to as "convergence trades." Assumedly, Long-Term used models to assess
the probability of history reasserting itself and the risk to the overall portfolio of individual
relationships going the wrong way. Thus would they determine the amount of risk and leverage
that could safely be taken on.

In his wonderful book, Against the Gods, Peter Bernstein shows how development of the study
of probability made possible both informed gambling and informed investing (along with other
forms of decision making concerning the future). But the products of this pursuit remain mere
probabilities, or reasonable expectations. Likely events sometimes fail to occur, and unlikely
events sometimes do. Or, as my friend Bruce Newberg says when I get the one improbable roll
of the dice needed to beat him in backgammon, "there can be a big difference between
probability and outcome." If you are conscious of the difference between a likely outcome and
a certain one, you may not want to bet the ranch.

The same is true in the world of investments; put simply, relationships that are supposed to hold
sometimes fail to do so. This may happen because markets and systems don't work (in the
Crash of 1987, portfolio insurers couldn't get their stop-loss sales off), because external events
aren't fully anticipated (inverse floaters tanked in 1994 because interest rates rose at annual
rates of 600 or 700 basis points that had been considered impossible), or simply because of the
unreliability of the human participants (scared people often fail to step forward with cash at the
times that matter most). A relationship's failure to hold often comes just when faith in it has
reached an excessive level and huge sums have been bet on it. For whatever reason, we have
seen many instances when probabilistic models turned out not to have made sufficient
allowance for an "improbable disaster."

As Long-Term's Meriwether wrote in his September 2 letter to investors, "the Fund added to its
words, sometimes things that are cheap just get cheaper and things that are dear get dearer.

For free markets to operate at equilibrium, there must be healthy tension between two
motivating factors: fear and greed. If a participant feels both, greed will push him to take
chances but fear will put limits on the risk he assumes. However, the two are not always in
balance -- one or the other is often in the ascendancy. For the last few years, too little fear has
been present, and greed and risk-taking have dominated. Long-Term's managers' brainpower
may have let them consider their process foolproof, so that they felt too little fear and took on
too much risk. In every era, one prominent participant becomes emblematic, and Long-Term is
likely to be known for a long time as the "poster boy" of the 1990s.

I think investors are always looking for "the silver bullet." They seek a course of action that
will lead to large profits without risk -- and thus they pursued Nifty-Fifty investing in the
1970s, portfolio insurance in the '80s and market-neutral strategies in the '90s. Often, they
align themselves with "geniuses" who they hope will make it easy for them -- be it Joe
Granville, Elaine Garzarelli, David Askin or John Meriwether.

But the silver bullet doesn't exist. No strategy can produce high rates of return without some
risk. And nobody has all of the answers; we're all just human. Brilliance, like pride, often
goes before the fall. Not only is it insufficient to enable those possessing it to control the
future, but awe of it can cause people to follow without asking the questions they should and
without reserving enough for the rainy day that inevitably comes. This is probably the greatest
lesson of Long-Term Capital Management. There are others, which I'll review below.

1) As I've written before, "volatility + leverage = dynamite." The main cause of Long--
Term's collapse probably wasn't its security selection, or the declines in its markets, but rather
its leverage. On average, its positions may have declined just a few percent. But when your
assets exceed 25 times your equity, even a 4% price decline is enough to wipe you out.

Nowadays, most people use the word "leverage" interchangeably with "debt." But it's better
understood in the sense I first learned: the extent to which a change in the top line is magnified
by the time it reaches the bottom line. That's why the British call it "gearing." In Las Vegas
they say "the more you bet, the more you win when you win." They never add
your capital, and it exposes you to more of the good and more of the bad. Leverage can truly
be dynamite.

None of Oaktree's portfolios use leverage to invest more than our capital (although our
Emerging Markets Fund will be able to do so to a limited extent). We have reviewed several
opportunities for leverage, but in the risk-tolerant climate prevailing until recently, we didn't
find base returns worth leveraging up. For example, despite repeatedly being invited to do so
over the last five years, we declined to organize CBOs (leveraged high yield bond portfolios).
This followed from our conviction that leverage should never be used in an attempt to turn
low spreads into wide ones, only to take advantage of already-wide spreads. The
managers of Long-Term used enormous leverage in an attempt to profit hugely from minute
spreads, and it eventually did them in.

2) Hedge funds offer no magic per se. As we described in our April piece on alternative
investments, hedge funds carry only two common threads: private partnership status and a fee
mechanism through which general partners share in net gains. The hedge fund investor's
birthright certainly does not include either high returns or low risk.

But the hedge fund structure can have ramifications which investors (such as Long-Term's)
seem to recognize only after problems arise. Our memo entitled "Risk In Today's Markets"
(February 17, 1994) asked the following about 'til-then successful hedge funds:

 With the average stock or bond returning 10-15% last year, how did some
 hedge funds make 70% or more? It was through bold and heavily-leveraged
 For how long are they tying up their money? How much do they know about
 the strategies being employed?

We never hope that our warnings will turn out to be needed, but we usually feel it is inevitable.
The case of Long-Term demonstrates that hedge funds represent no panacea and often hold
significant drawbacks. The c1osed-end structure should be entered into only after the
underlying strategy has been reviewed in depth and confidence in the managers has been fully
justified.

3) "If it seems too good to be true, it probably is." This old saw goes out of style from time
to time, but it makes a comeback each time a get-rich-quick scheme is exposed. Many
"riskless" arbitrage, hedge and market-neutral strategies have turned out to involve more risk
than was let on.

When I was a kid, I saw in a 1930s movie that the Rothschilds built their fortune because their
exclusive use of carrier pigeons allowed them to simultaneously buy a currency at one rate in
London and sell it at a different rate in Paris. That's pure arbitrage: trading the same asset at
different prices at the same time.

But as soon as you deal in different assets that have less than a 100% probability of moving in
tandem, you introduce "basis risk," or the risk that the assets being arbitraged won't go in the
anticipated directions. That's what killed Long-Term; their bonds' yields diverged when they
were supposed to converge. Historic relationships proved to be less dependable than had been
thought.

4) "It's always something." That's what Roseanne Rosanadana used to say on Saturday Night
Live, and it's very true -- eventually, something always goes awry. Any course of action which
depends on everything going right is unsafe, but such an expectation has to have been behind
Long-Term's 25-plus times leverage. Warren Buffet, with his insistence on "margin for error,"
would never make such a bet (although he was willing in the hours just before the restructuring
to join Goldman Sachs and AIG in a low-ball bid of $250 million for Long-Term at a time
when its net worth is thought to have been $600 million).

In "Are You an Investor or a Speculator" (September 3, 1997), we wrote:

 What could cause a market decline? A drop in investor confidence -- perhaps
 the commodity that's most freely available today -- would likely be the key, but
 the reason is hard to foresee. "We're not expecting any surprises," people
 say, and that has become our new favorite oxymoron. Surprises are never
 surprise could be geo-political (oil embargo, war in Korea), economic (tight
 money, slowing profit growth), or internal to the market (competition from
 bonds at higher interest rates, discovery of a fraud), but it's most likely to be
 something that no one has anticipated -- including us.

When I was a kid, my dad used to joke about the habitual gambler who finally heard about a
race with only one horse in it. He bet the rent money on it, but he lost when the horse jumped
over the fence and ran away. There is no sure thing, only better and worse bets, and anyone
who invests without expecting something to go wrong is playing the most dangerous game
around.

5) "Never confuse brains with a bull market." When the 1990s began, the economy and the
stock market were at very low levels. As a result, success came easily, risk-bearing paid off
and the highest returns often went to those who took the most risk. They and their strategies
were accepted as the best.

In my opinion, (a) the three ingredients behind success are timing, aggressiveness and skill, and
(b) if you have enough aggressiveness at the right time, you don't need that much skill. But
those who have attained their success primarily through well-timed aggressiveness can't be
depended on to repeat it -- especially in tough times. When an investment track record is
considered, it's essential that the relative roles of these three factors be assessed.

6) Change in the availability of credit is a powerful force, and the longer I'm in the
investment business, the more I respect the role of the credit cycle. For example, although we
hope we added value through our implementation, our 1990 distressed debt funds earned their
50% gross returns largely because (a) fear and the government's actions closed the credit
window, (b) the LBOs of the 1980s couldn't refinance their debt and defaulted in droves, and
(c) that debt could therefore be bought for a song. A significant recession contributed to the
conflagration, but whereas a generous capital market would have let companies finance their
way out of trouble (as they did from 1993 through mid-1998), a tight one brought them down in

The product of lenders is money, and it's their job to move it off the shelves. Because money is
the ultimate undifferentiable commodity, lenders can compete for market share in boom times
only by taking on bigger risks than the next guy, charging less interest or accepting looser
terms. All of these tactics turn on a dime when things get tough, inflicting great pain and
causing lending to contract.

In times of easy money, companies prosper that should not, just as deserving companies fail
when money's tight. Easy money was key in Long-Term's early success and later collapse.
The bankers and brokers let the General Partners lever up their equity capital and take on far
out-sized positions. They loaned amounts of money that were unsafe both for Long-Term
Capital and for themselves. I assume that, seduced by Long-Term's brilliance, they did so
without knowing how much it had borrowed in total or what its portfolio looked like.

The violent swings of the credit cycle -- usually far more volatile than the underlying economy
-- are behind many of the extreme occurrences in the business and investment world. Excessive
lending contributed greatly to booms preceding the collapses in real estate in 1989-92 and
emerging markets in 1997-98, just as tight lending added to the bankruptcies of 1990-92. Look
around the next time there's a crisis; you'll probably find a lender.

7) "How Quickly They Forget." While it would be great (and very profitable) to be able to
see the future, the truth is that few of us can. But you don't have to be prescient to be able to
invest intelligently while avoiding the most dangerous hazards. Knowledge of the past will get
you a good part of the way there.

The relevance of the lessons of Long-Term has nothing to do with knowledge of the future.
Leverage is always dangerous. Something always goes wrong eventually. Those who see high
returns often mistake risk bearing for genius. The swings of the credit cycle can overwhelm all
other factors. Every boom carries within itself the seeds of decline (just as every bust lays the
groundwork for recovery). Forget forecasting -- you'll be well ahead if you simply bear in
mind the lessons of the past.

We've all heard George Santayana's famous observation that "Those who cannot remember the
past are condemned to repeat it." And yet, how many of today's mistakes are just replays of the
past? Thirty years ago, the stocks of "the best companies" reached P/Es of fifty and more from
which they eventually collapsed. Ten years ago, highly leveraged investments were financed
with bridge loans which investment bankers were stuck with when the financing window
closed. Five years ago, banks got into big trouble with derivatives. All of these are causing
problems again in 1998 for those who forgot history or rationalized its irrelevance in the "new
paradigm."

I've previously recommended John Kenneth Galbraith's excellent little book, A Short History of
Financial Euphoria. Although I don't appreciate its swipes at high yield bonds, I consider it
must reading for anyone who wants to think and invest against the grain. Galbraith says:

 past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory. In
 consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further consequence,
 when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again, sometimes in only
 a few years, they are hailed by a new, often youthful, and always supremely
 self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative discovery in the financial
 and larger economic world. There can be few fields of human endeavor in

 which history counts for so little as in the world of finance. Past experience, to
 the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of
 those who do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the
 present. [Emphasis added]

Amen. People who acknowledge no limits on their ability to know and control the future have
no need to study history. For the rest of us, it's one of the best tools we've got.

 * * *

Inability to remember that you can't know what the future holds is a common failing and the
cause of some of the biggest financial difficulties. It's one of the greatest contributors to hubris
-- the over-estimation of what you can know and do.

General Motors's Charles Froland says the people of Long- Term Credit developed "too much
conviction." Henry Kaufman was recently quoted on the subject as saying "there are two kinds
of people who lose money: those who know nothing and those who know everything." Dirty
Harry weighed in, saying "a man has to know his limitations." I actually think my mother had
it best: "He who knows not and knows not he knows not is a fool; shun him."

Oaktree is built on the following axioms (among many others):

 -- We can't know everything about the future, and the "bigger picture" the question, the
 less we can know the answer.

 -- We must always expect that something will go wrong and build in margin for error.

 -- When the market embodies too much greed, we must be conscious of the risk that's
 present. When it swings too far toward fear, we should take advantage of the bargains
 that result.

 -- We must constantly remind ourselves of our limitations and dedicate ourselves to the
 avoidance of hubris. If our methodologies are valid and our people are talented,
 hubris is one of the few things that could make us fail.

The applicability of the lessons of Long-Term is not limited to that company alone. Instead,
they illustrate several of the universal truths in investing. You won't see them forgotten here.