Memo: bubble.com.

The book "Devil Take the Hindmost" by Edward Chancellor does an excellent job of
 chronicling the history of financial speculation. In doing so, it recounts the story of "the
 South Sea Bubble" and provides a backdrop against which I'd like to examine some of
 the events of today.

 The South Sea Company was formed in 1711 to help deleverage the British government
 by assuming some of the government's debt and paying it off with the proceeds of a
 stock offering. In exchange for performing this service for the Crown, the company
 received a monopoly for trading with the Spanish colonies in South America and the
 exclusive right to sell slaves there. Demand for the company's stock was strong due to
 the expectation of great profits from these endeavors, although none ever materialized.
 In 1720, a speculative mania took flight and the stock soared.

 Sir Isaac Newton, who was the Master of the Mint at the time, joined many other
 wealthy Englishmen in investing in the stock. It rose from £128 in January of l720 to
 £1,050 in June. Early in this rise, however, Newton realized the speculative nature of
 the boom and sold his £7,000 worth of stock. When asked about the direction of the
 market, he is reported to have replied "I can calculate the motions of the heavenly
 bodies, but not the madness of the people."

 By September 1720, the bubble was punctured and the stock price fell below £200, off
 80% from its high three months earlier. It turned out, however, that despite having seen
 through the bubble earlier, Sir Isaac, like so many investors over the years, couldn't
 stand the pressure of seeing those around him make vast profits. He bought back the
 stock at its high and ended up losing £20,000. Not even one of the world's smartest
 men was immune to this tangible lesson in gravity!
 * * *

 It's obvious from "Devil Take the Hindmost" that many elements of speculative
 behavior were present during the South Sea Bubble. I'll cite some of its passages below
 and point out the parallels to today that I see:

 "The ideology of self-interest had recovered after the battering it received after the
 pride and luxury - produced public benefits." [Sounds like the "greed is good"
 rationalization of the 1980s.]

 The success of South Sea spawned talk of any number of speculative schemes,
 some of which was probably apocryphal. "The most famous of the legendary
 bubble companies was that 'for carrying on an undertaking of great advantage but
 no one to know what it is.'" [I can't understand what it does, but that's okay; just
 tell me the name, II. or maybe the symbol's enough.]

 Despite their lack of profits, companies like South Sea were able to finance their
 operations by issuing stock at higher and higher prices. "The circularity inherent in
 the scheme made a rational calculation of the shares' fair value difficult to compute.
 this Way of Computing, no Person can Purchase at too high a Rate, since his Profit
 will increase in Proportion to the Price he gives.'" [There's no such thing as too
 high a price if the concept is right, and the ability to issue stock at rising prices will
 lead to profitability.]

 "Adam Anderson, a former cashier of the South Sea Company, later claimed that
 hopeless, since they aimed to get 'rid of them in the crowded alley to others more
 credulous than themselves.'" [The greater fool theory is nothing new.]

 "As Edward Ward observed in his poem 'A South Sea Ballad':

 Few Men who follow Reason's Rules,
 Grow fat with South-Sea Diet,
 Young Rattles and unthinking Fools
 Are those that flourish by it."
 [The profits went to those unrestrained by reason or experience.]

 Robert Digby wrote "The South Sea Company is continually a source of
 wonderment. The sole topic of conversation in England revolves around the shares
 of the Company, which have produced vast fortunes for many people in such a short
 space of time. Moreover it is to be noted that trade has completely slowed down,
 that more than one hundred ships moored along the river Thames are for sale, and
 that the owners of capital prefer to speculate on shares than to work at their normal
 business." [The name of the company was on everyone's lips, the fortunes it created
 were front-page news, and the average Joe was willing to give up his day job to
 ***

 I will devote the rest of this memo to what certainly seems to me to be another market
 bubble. Before doing so, however, I must point out a few things: First, as usual, little
 that I will write will be original; instead, I hope to add value by pulling together ideas
 from a number of sources. Second, a single word suffices to describe my recent caution
 regarding the stock market: wrong. Nevertheless, I'll admit my negative bias and

 the fact that I have found the bears convincing and the bulls Pollyanna, and then move on
 to discuss the effect on the market of technology as we move into a new millennium. In
 short, I find the evidence of an overheated, speculative market in technology, Internet
 and telecommunications stocks overwhelming, as are the similarities to past manias.

 Changing the world -- Of course, the entire furor over technology, e-commerce and
 telecom stocks stems from the companies' potential to change the world. I have
 absolutely no doubt that these movements are revolutionizing life as we know it,
 or that they will leave the world almost unrecognizable from what it was only a
 few years ago. The challenge lies in figuring out who the winners will be, and
 what a piece of them is really worth today.

 The graph at the left shows the stock price performance of the
 leading company in an industry that was thought capable of
 changing the world. For that reason, the stock followed the
 explosive price pattern that has become typical for technological
 innovators. The predictions were correct: the industry did change
 the world, and the company was its big winner.

 The industry was radio. In the 1920s it was expected to change
 the world, and it did. Its ability to communicate without wires
 created entertainment in the home, electronic advertising and the
 live delivery of events. The company was RCA, and as the
 industry leader its stock rose from $8 in mid-1927 to $114 in

 While part of the stock's appreciation was due to the market
 boom in which it shared, certainly part was also due to an
 overvaluation of its potential. After the onset of the Great Crash,
 RCA's stock fell from that high of $114 to $21⁄2 within three
 years. The Depression can be blamed for some of this
 decimation, but it is worth noting that even 25 years after the
 1929 peak, when the Depression and World War II were well
 over and the post-war recovery was underway, RCA's stock had
 yet to get back to a third of its earlier high. The times, the
 industries and the companies are certainly different today, but it
 makes one wonder whether investors aren't again overpaying for
 the ability to change the world.

 Similarly, a recent article in Fortune reported Warren Buffet's observation that
 almost all of the manufacturers of both are now gone. Few things have had the
 impact on the world that aviation did, but from its founding through 1992, the
 cumulative profit of the airline industry was zero!

 As usual, Buffet puts it as succinctly as anyone could: "The key to investing is not
 assessing how much an industry is going to affect society, or how much it will
 grow, but rather determining the competitive advantage of any given company
 and, above all, the durability of that advantage. The products or services that have
 wide, sustainable moats around them are the ones that deliver rewards to investors."
 (Emphasis added) (Three years ago, everyone wanted to be Warren Buffet, or at least
 read books about him. Now, appearing to have missed out on the technology
 movement, he and his investment approach are dismissed as passe by the dot-com
 gang.)

 Altered lives -- During the South Sea bubble, as described above, boats were put up
 for sale and people with capital shifted from being workers to being investors. In a
 striking parallel, the Internet-commerce revolution is also changing lives. Of course,
 we know that thousands of Americans have become on-line traders either full- or
 part-time. Articles describe people who are trying to "ride the trend" of hot stocks
 and benefit from their momentum, but there's little indication that they have any idea
 what makes companies do well or stocks go up (or even what some of their
 companies do). The Wall Street Journal of December 7 cited an individual who has
 spent his full time in the prior five months trading the stock of one company, CMGI,
 which invests in Internet ventures; he doesn't know the CEO's name.

 Also striking is the effect this is having on business education and young careers. A
 front-page article in the New York Times of November 28 reported that applications
 at many business schools were flat or down, the number of Americans taking the
 GMAT exam was down sharply, and not-insignificant numbers of MBA students
 were dropping out after the first year to join the hot fields. As a professor of
 entrepreneurship told me, all of the e-commerce claims will be staked out in the next
 year or two; students can't risk staying in school and seeing someone else act on their
 ideas. Five years ago, the hot area for new MBAs was investment banking. Now, I
 hear, investment banks can't get the top students to sign up for interviews and are
 having trouble meeting their recruiting goals.

 The pressure to move toward the high-change areas is great, and people are
 succumbing. Everyone in the investment profession knows (or knows of) somebody
 who has made hundreds of millions (or a billion) this year on a dot-com investment.
 One can imagine that this makes the buyout specialists who built fortunes over a
 lifetime feel like underachievers. Private equity firms are getting involved in
 companies at earlier stages, and with the dot-coms. On November 30, a Wall Street
 Journal article about defections of buyout specialists to venture capital firms cited a
 KKR partner who had resigned to do just that.

 Venture capitalists and technologists, in turn, are moving to Internet firms. As a sign
 that it's even becoming hard for more mature technology firms to hold onto people,
 the CFO of Microsoft recently quit to join a fiber-optic company. Remember,
 Microsoft has already been public 17 years; the gold-rush is over at the established
 firms, and the overnight fortunes have been made. Even investment bankers are in
 transit; on December 14, a New York Times article on the subject was headlined
 "Wall St. Is Flush With Cash But Also Green With Envy." A Harvard Business

 School professor aptly mixes his metaphors, likening the rush of executives to
 Internet-related ventures to "a tsunami of people chasing a pot of gold."

 The lure of venture capital - I recently presented the case for distressed debt to three
 classes in entrepreneurial finance at the University of Chicago Graduate Business School.
 The response of half the students was simple: Why settle for 20-25% per year when you
 can make 100% in venture capital?

 Just as venture capital is attracting young businesspeople, it is also turning heads in the
 investment community. One university treasurer told me his school's $29,000
 investment in Yahoo! via a venture fund grew to $54 million (and would be more than
 twice that today if it hadn't been sold). Why do anything else, indeed?!

 Before we succumb to this reasoning, however, (and run out to start the OCM Venture
 Capital Fund), we should first review the data concerning venture capital's brief
 history.

 For funds raised between 1984 and 1989, the median return to Limited Partners
 ranged from 7.5% to 15.1%. For funds raised between 1990 and 1994, it ranged from
 20.4% to 29.7%. These are healthy returns, but certainly the typical v.c. investor
 enjoyed no bonanza in that period. A quarter or more of the funds raised in almost
 every year provided returns ranging downward from 10% to negative territory.

 It's only for funds started in the mid-to-late 1990s that the returns have been so eye-
 popping. For each vintage year beginning in 1994, there has been at least one fund
 with a return above 200%/year. And yet, the median returns thus far for vintage years
 between 1994 and 1999 range only from zero to 33.7% (although it can be argued that
 it's still early).

 While it's hard to settle on a "typical" vintage year for venture capital, 1994 is a
 reasonable candidate. Its funds are five years old, so there has been time to bring
 companies to fruition and to market. And certainly, the environment has been
 positive. In fact, 1994's top fund has returned 235%/year so far, and the average
 fund has returned 45%/year, an impressive figure. But averages can be deceiving,
 and this one has certainly been pulled up by the best performers. The median fund is
 up only 22.5%/year. Half the funds have annual returns below that (by definition),
 and the returns in the bottom quartile range from 6.4% to minus 13.2%.

 The recent years all show similar patterns (although it's too early for meaningful
 results to be in): phenomenal for the big winners, good on average, but certainly not
 universally successful yet.

 Having reviewed the historic data, what can we say about the future? Certainly, the
 venture capital funds are "where it's at": the toll bridge through which world-changing
 companies are likely to pass. Does that mean they're a good investment today?

 I feel strongly that no investment opportunity is so good that it can't be screwed up by
 the wrong relationship between supply and demand. Too much money for too few
 ideas can mean ruinous terms and purchase prices that are too high. To my mind, the
 immediate outlook for venture capital is called into question by:

 - the ardor that has been ignited by recent "headline" returns,
 - thus the huge amount of money looking for a home in ventures,
 - the expanded amounts that v.c. firms are accepting in their new funds,
 - the strengthened negotiating position of entrepreneurs relative to venture capitalists,
 - thus the need among v.c. firms to compete in haste to make investments,
 - the ease with which junior members can leave v.c. firms to start their own funds,
 - the strengthened negotiating position of venture capitalists relative to their investors, and
 - thus the ability of v.c. firms to raise their incentive fee percentage.

 In my experience, the big, low-risk profits have usually come from investments
 made at those times when recent results have been poor, capital is scarce,
 investors are reticent and everyone says "no way!" Today, great results in venture
 capital are in the headlines, money is everywhere, investors are emboldened and
 the mantra is "of course!"

 In this context, it's very much worth noting that in 1994, someone looking at venture
 funds formed from 1981 to 1992 would have seen only one vintage year with an average
 net return above 12%, and nine out of twelve years with single digit average returns.
 Despite the lukewarm results as of that date, a few forward-looking investors were
 willing to commit $7.8 billion to venture capital funds, and it is they who are earning the
 returns we see. In 1998, on the other hand, the 200%+ results on the top funds formed in
 recent years egged investors on to commit more than three times that amount: $26.1
 billion. Today one hears only that investors want to put more into venture capital but
 can't get access to the most desirable funds. I'll leave it to you to deduce the implications
 for future returns.

 The role of the IPO: A "mania-within-a-mania" has taken flight in the high-tech
 investment world, and it surrounds Initial Public Offerings. In years past, new
 issues had to be priced to sell, and companies accessing the public equity market for
 the first time had to hope they could get investors to pay a fair price. Now, investors
 are sure that buying stock on a new issue - at the price the founders are willing to
 sell at - is the ticket to easy money. And to date it has been.

 It is reported that the average new issue of 1999, which on average is probably about six
 months old, is selling roughly 160% above its issue price (for four times the average gain
 in the next-best year). For an example, The Wall Street Journal of December 8 described
 the case of Akamai, which went public on October 29 at a price of $26. It closed that day
 never have gotten such a reception," The Journal added. "It didn't exist." Akamai's price

 is $328 today, bringing its market capitalization to $29 billion. (By the way, in the first
 nine months of 1999, Akamai lost $28 million on $1.3 million of sales.)

 The ability to participate in IPOs has become a major perk. Investment banks compete
 with other money managers by promising wealthy individuals allocations in their IPOs.
 Technology companies allocate IPO shares to their customers as a way to cement
 business relationships.

 As usual, I don't think investors are thinking this through. The Akamai IPO was priced at
 18% of the first day's closing price. So either (a) the founding entrepreneurs and
 investors sold it 82% below its fair price (and who would know better than they would?)
 or (b) the market's wrong. It may well be that issuers intentionally underprice their
 offerings so that the first day's rise will create the "buzz" that will enable (1) the
 companies to finance their losses and their expansion through additional stock issuance
 and (2) the founders to sell their remaining shares. I'm sure some of that is at work here,
 but how much? If the closing price of $145 was "right," Akamai left almost $1 billion on
 the table in the IPO by selling eight million shares at $26.

 Further, how much due diligence is being done on each new issue? How experienced are
 the people doing it? How strict are the valuation parameters they're using? How will the
 post-deal prices hold up when the lock-up periods end and the founding entrepreneurs
 and venture capitalists start selling the 80-90% of the stock that they still own? And what
 will happen when the options used to attract employees - and to pay service providers -
 begin to be exercised and the shares sold? What price will supply/demand dictate when
 the supply of stock increases five or ten times?

 Today, it seems companies are formed and start-up financing is raised not through
 discussions of the companies' profit potential, but with reference to the possible timing
 and pricing of an IPO. The recent book "The New, New Thing" by Michael Lewis, about
 the career of venture capitalist Jim Clark (Silicon Graphics, Netscape, Healtheon), makes
 it clear that in many cases, today's entrepreneur isn't thinking idea/startup/company as
 might have been the case in the past; rather, it's idea/startup/IPO. Cashing in used to be
 the result of successful company-building. Now it's often the end in itself. It's the IPO
 that's "the thing."

 How will the companies make money? -- Many of the new firms have great ideas for
 making money, but it's appropriate to wonder whether they'll work, how the competition
 in each "space" (that's the dot-com term for a business niche) will develop, whether
 profits will materialize, and whether they'll be sufficient to justify today's stock prices.

 I don't think anyone would disagree that it's one thing to innovate and change the world
 and another thing entirely to make money. Business will be different in the future,
 meaning that not all of the old rules will hold. On the other hand, profits come from
 taking in more in revenue than you payout in expense, and I don't think that's going to
 change. I'll highlight below just three of the areas in which I have questions about
 profitability.

 First, will the Internet and dot-com companies be able to charge enough for their
 products to make money? Front page articles in The New York Times (October 14) and
 The Wall Street Journal (July 28) discussed the fact that many of the Internet's offerings
 are free. Decades ago, merchants discovered that they could sell more if they cut prices.
 The Internet firms have taken that one step further: they can move even more
 merchandise if they give it away. As the CEO of Egreetings Network says, "Charging
 for [greeting] cards was a small idea. Giving them away is a really big idea." Says a
 free. And if you don't give it away, some other start-up will."

 Internet firms are giving away faxes, long-distance phone calls, music, web browsers
 and even Internet service itself. "The marginal cost of adding another user is practically
 zero," says one venture capitalist. The trouble as I see it is that the marginal revenue is
 exactly zero. Obviously, these firms are giving their services away in order to build
 traffic, tie up market share early and/or sell advertising space. It's far from clear that
 profits will follow.

 As I read the articles mentioned above I was reminded of a great series of jokes my
 father told when I was young:

 "I lose money on everything I sell."
 "Then how do you stay in business?"
 "I make it up on volume."

 "I lose money on everything I sell."
 "Then how do you stay in business?"
 "I'm closed Sundays."

 "I sell everything at cost."
 "Then how do you stay in business?"
 "I buy below cost."

 The riddle of profitability is very much present in this area. I'm sure some firms will
 solve it - but far from all of them.

 Second, how practical are the business models of the dot-com firms? It seems like
 ancient history, but I seem to remember that doing business in cyberspace was going to
 eliminate the need for conventional advertising, and "virtual inventories" were expected
 to replace brick-and-mortar warehouses filled with merchandise. Now we read about the
 huge sums Amazon.com is spending on warehouses, and media advertising is sold out at
 high prices because the Internet firms are bidding for it so aggressively. EToys will do
 business without stores and will just own warehouses, but what is a Toys 'R' Us store
 other than a warehouse with the front prettied up? Webvan Group sell groceries over the
 Internet, saving on store costs but providing free delivery. According to the December
 15 Journal, however, "as of Sept. 30, Webvan's average order size was $72 -too small to
 absorb the costs of home delivery. For the first nine months of 1999, in fact, Webvan

 had a $95 million loss on revenue of just $4.2 million."

 Lastly, what will be the effect of competition? It will take time, and there will be big
 cannibalization issues, but eventually the incumbents in each area will move to defend
 their businesses against the e-commerce firms. Merrill Lynch bit the bullet and decided
 to enable customers to trade on line as a response to E*Trade. Albertson's and Kroger
 have announced that they'll mount experimental home delivery systems rather than let
 firms like Webvan have the grocery business. The December l7 L.A. Times reported that
 Toys 'R' Us and Walmart had opened online shopping sites in competition with EToys.
 (EToys' stock is now off 70% from its high three months ago, wiping out $7.1 billion of
 market value). Dot-com companies will get there early, make inroads and drive up costs
 for the conventional firms, but they will face determined competition from incumbents
 fighting for their lives.

 Even among just the dot-coms, competition is bound to delay and limit profitability.
 Most of today's e-commerce companies can, at best, boast of early entry and leading
 market share (the so-called "first-mover advantage"). Rarely is there patent protection,
 meaningful product differentiation or other substantial barriers to entry. The companies
 can't count on brand loyalty, because it's all just about low price. There'll always be
 someone waiting in the wings to cut price (perhaps to zero) for market share, and given
 the ease of gathering information on the Web, consumers will always be able to
 immediately find the lowest price. Location won't matter, because in cyberspace,
 everyone is everywhere. I think factors like these are likely to render profitability elusive
 and transitory.

 What are the companies worth? - Eventually, this is what it comes down to. It's not
 enough to buy a share in a good idea, or even a good business. You must buy it at a
 reasonable (or, hopefully, a bargain) price.

 Vast amounts of ink have been devoted to the valuations being put on the new companies.
 For The New York Times's time capsule, David Letterman compiled a list of The Top 10
 Things People in the Year 3000 Should Know About Us. As a sign of the times, he
 included "If you wanted a billion dollars, all you had to do was think of a word and add
 dot com."

 Priceline.com, which auctions off discount air tickets, (September quarter sales of
 $152 million, net loss of $102 million) has a market capitalization of $7.5 billion,
 while United and Continental Airlines ($7.1 billion sales, $469 million earnings) are
 worth a combined $7.3 billion.

 Webvan Group, which started up in business in 1999, had sales of $3.8 million and a
 $350,000 profit in the September quarter. The stock market currently values it at
 $7.3 billion.

 On December 9, VA Linux went public at $30 and soared 698% that day to $239, for
 a market value of $9.5 billion, half that of Apple. To that date, the company's 1999
 sales were $17.7 million and it had lost $14.5 million (versus Apple's profit of $600
 million in the most recent twelve months). (VA Linux broke the record for an
 opening day rise. It had been held since November 1998 by theglobe.com, whose
 stock rose 606% on the first day, from $41⁄2 to almost $32. Now it's at $8.)

 Among non-Internet tech companies, Yahoo! is worth $119 billion, more than General
 Motors and Ford together. At the current stock price of $432, its p/e ratio on 1999
 estimated earnings is just over 1,000. America Online trades at almost 250 times
 projected earnings for the June year currently underway, and Cisco trades above 100
 times. Charles Schwab, the apparent winner among brokers in the new era, trades at 54
 times estimated 1999 earnings, triple the multiple for Goldman Sachs. According to
 Barron's, the price/earnings ratio of the Nasdaq crossed 170 in November and may have

 An analysis by Sanford Bernstein shows that on September 30, you could have bought
 America Online and Microsoft for $625 billion and gotten $25 billion of sales and $7
 billion of earnings. Alternatively, for $635 billion you could have bought 70 industrial,
 financial, transportation and utility companies including Bank of America, Chubb,
 Federated Department Stores, Litton, Philip Morris, Ryder and Whirlpool and gotten
 $747 billion of sales and $43 billion of earnings. The future certainly looks better for
 AOL and Microsoft than for those other companies, but does the differential warrant a
 p/e ratio 6 times as high (89 versus 15)?

 And that's for "established" companies. Because the price/earnings ratios of Internet
 companies are so outlandish - usually negative - one may be forced to look to the
 price/sales ratio in order to speak about valuation. Red Hat, for example, sells at about
 1,000 times its annualized revenues in the August quarter. Many of the Internet and
 tech companies are just concepts, and their stocks have truly slipped the valuation
 moorings.

 Under these unusual circumstances, The Journal wrote on December 10, "stock
 valuations take on an unusually large importance in gauging a business's performance."
 In other words, in the absence of other signs, people must look to the share price for an
 indication of how the company is doing. Isn't that backwards? In the old days, investors
 figured out how the business was doing and then set the share price.

 In this valuation parameter vacuum, a "lottery ticket mentality" seems to govern the
 purchase decision. The model for investments in the tech and dot-com companies isn't
 the likelihood of a 20% or 30% annual return based on projected earnings and p/e ratios,
 but a shot at a 1,000% gain based on a concept. The pitch might be "We're looking for
 first-round financing for a company valued at $30 million that we think we can IPO in
 two years at $2 billion." Or maybe it's "The IPO will be priced at $20. It may end the

 day at $100 and be at $200 in six months." Would you play? Could you stand the risk
 of saying no and being wrong? The pressure to buy can be immense.

 There have always been ideas, stocks and IPOs that produced great profits. Yet the
 pressure to participate wasn't as great as it is today because in the past the winners made
 millions, not billions, and it took years, not months. The upside in the deals that've
 worked so far has been 100-to-l (give or take a zero). With that kind of potential, (a) the
 upside becomes irresistible and (b) it doesn't take a very high probability of success to
 justify the investment. I have said in the past that while the market is usually driven by
 fear and greed, sometimes the strongest motivator is the fear of missing out. Never was
 that as true as today. This only intensifies the pressure to join in and crawl further out on
 that limb of risk.

 With broader relevance than just the dot-com stocks, the relative performance chart
 below from Barron's of September 27 (already quite outdated) shows two things:

 1. over the last two decades, technology stocks have had periods of both
 underperformance and overperformance relative to the large-cap universe, and
 2. the recent outperformance is unparalleled even in this bullish period.

 Nothing in this chart suggests that it'll be easy money in technology from here. As
 Alan Abelson wrote when he ran the graph, "Our reservation here is that (a)
 technology, like everything else in life, is cyclical; and (b) there's something goofy
 about the price of a stock discounting as much as a century of earnings for a
 company in a field where change is the only constant and where the pace of
 change is constantly quickening." (Emphasis added)

 In September Steve Ballmer, President of Microsoft, said he thought tech stocks were
 overvalued. The stocks are much higher today, and his own is up more than 20%.
 Whose opinion matters? Is there a price that's too high?

 Barton Biggs, Chairman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asset Management, is a well-
 respected observer who has been somewhat cautionary to date (and wrong). His
 November 29 strategy piece was without equivocation. I'll let him sum up.

 The technology, Internet and telecommunication craze has gone parabolic in
 manias is that they have almost always been solidly based on revolutionary
 developments that eventually change the world. Without fail, the bubble stage of
 professional investors involved in these areas know that what is going on today is
 madness. However, they argue that the right tactic is to stay invested as long as the
 price momentum is up. When momentum begins to ebb, they will sell their
 positions and escape the carnage. Since they have very large positions and since
 they all follow the same momentum, I suspect they are deluded in thinking they
 will be able to get out in time, because all other momentum investors will be doing
 the same thing. (Emphasis added)

 ***

 I am convinced that a few essential lessons are involved here.

 1. The positives behind stocks can be genuine and still produce losses if you overpay for
 them.

 2. Those positives - and the massive profits that seemingly everyone else is enjoying
 - can eventually cause those who have resisted participating to capitulate.

 3. A "top" in a stock, group or market occurs when the last holdout who will become a
 buyer does so. The timing is often unrelated to fundamental developments.

 4. "Prices are too high" is far from synonymous with "the next move will be
 become far more so.

 5. Eventually, though, valuation has to matter.

 To say technology, Internet and telecommunications stocks are too high and about to
 decline is comparable today to standing in front of a freight train. To say they have
 benefited from a boom of colossal proportions and should be examined very skeptically is
 something I feel I owe you.

 P.s.: The apocalyptic view of the current situation states that the world economy is
 dependent on the prosperity of the United States; the prosperity of the United States is
 based on the health of its stock market; the performance of the stock market is being
 driven by gains in a relatively small number of tech, Internet and telecommunications
 stocks; and therefore, when the inevitable correction comes in those few stocks, the
 ramifications will be worldwide. No one knows the extent to which this hypothesis
 will be proved correct. The column below, from The New York Times of January 1,
 2000, presents a more benign and enjoyable view.


Memo: Irrational Exuberance.

Recent years have witnessed great excesses in the stock market. The postmortems have
 begun to be written, and I'm determined not to lag. Thus I will attempt below to combine
 a number of ideas and bits of empirical data I've stored up over recent weeks in a memo
 which expresses my views and hopefully is of value to you. My ideas are disjointed, but
 I hope to be able to fashion a common thread.

 Postmortem? Do I mean to say the market's rise is over? You know I don't make
 predictions of that sort. I am not ringing the bell on stock prices, but hopefully on a
 style of investing without reason.

 The stock market's record-breaking rise through March 10 was driven by the tech
 stocks. The tech stocks, in turn, were driven by optimistic, get-rich-quick buying that
 was totally lacking in skepticism and caution. What I think may (and should) be on the
 wane is the belief that it is perfectly reasonable:

 to borrow in order to buy stocks that have already risen 500% and are selling at
 infinite P/E ratios,

 to rely exclusively on advice from friends, CNBC and Internet bulletin boards
 when investing in companies whose business you know nothing about, and

 for companies valued at billions of dollars to lose tens of millions per year,
 because investors can be counted on to give them more.
 These attitudes have certainly signaled irrational exuberance.

 On December 5, 1996, with the Dow at 6,437, Alan Greenspan coined that phrase, of
 which we're unlikely to have heard the last. Acting in the classic role of a central
 banker trying to jawbone against trends inimical to economic health, he asked:

 How do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values,
 which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions?
 Did Greenspan want to stop people from having fun and making money? No. He
 wanted to keep stocks from running too far too fast and thus avoid an excessive
 wealth effect.

 "Wealth effect" is the term used to describe the impact on the economy of major
 increases in the prices of stocks or other assets. When asset prices rise, people feel richer
 and spend more. When the resulting demand outstrips supply, inflation heats up.
 Further, when the upward trend of asset prices inevitably turns down, the wealth effect
 works in reverse, putting a damper on economic growth (although Greenspan is more
 likely to have been worried about inflation than economic softness).

 Prior to expressing his concern about exuberance, Greenspan was credited with the
 power and wisdom needed to keep the economy rising forever. So how did investors
 react to his remark? In the first half-hour of trading the next day, they took the Dow
 down by 145 points (which used to be considered a big move). But the exuberance of
 which he had warned soon reasserted itself, with the Dow closing the year virtually
 unchanged from its pre-critique level and moving 1000 points higher over the next six
 months.

 If it was irrational exuberance that had taken the Dow to 6,437 in late 1996, what would
 describe the rise to 7,437, and eventually to 11,497, in relatively short order? And what
 accounts for Greenspan's two subsequent years of silence on the subject? My guess is
 that he was feeling pressure from people - perhaps with a political stake in the continuing
 rise of the stock market-who castigated him for being a wet blanket.
 ***

 At any rate, Greenspan's warning receded into memory without meaningfully slowing the
 market's rise, and his place in the pantheon of popular heroes appeared diminished. After
 all, a record 49% of Americans now had a stake in the stock market, and their heroes
 were people who helped them make money, not scolds warning about excess and pushing
 prices lower. Having voiced concerns and diminished confidence, Greenspan was no
 longer the day trader's pin-up.

 When Greenspan began to raise rates on June 30, 1999, no one seemed to care. The
 Nasdaq Composite rose practically unabated from 2,686 at the time of the first of five
 rate increases to 5,049 just 8% months later. Thus Greenspan joined the roster of those
 whose genius was downgraded in recent times - almost comically, I think (unless you're
 one of the people so affected).

 Another prime example is Julian Robertson, who compiled an incredible record through
 mid-1998, with a return averaging 31.7% a year for 18 years. Then losses and capital
 withdrawals knocked his Tiger Fund from $22.8 billion to $5.2 billion over the next 18
 months. Every day the stock market was ridiculing both value investors like Robertson
 and the Old Economy companies they specialized in. Robertson announced a few weeks
 ago that he was closing up shop, saying, "we are in a market where reason does not
 prevail" and "there is no point in subjecting our investors to risk in a market which I
 frankly do not understand."

 In a supreme irony, the April week in which Robertson announced his departure turned
 out to be one of the best of his career, but the damage had already been done. I often
 think about the corrosive effect of being on the wrong side of a market judgment for
 prolonged periods, and the phenomenon through which those who resist trends the
 longest can finally capitulate at just the wrong time. Robertson, 67, had an approach that
 failed to work for two painful years and enough wealth to allow him to say "why put up
 with this?" The pressure to quit obviously hit its apex just as his timing in quitting was at
 its worst.

 Last week saw a pullback from risk on the part of George Soros, head of the remarkable
 Quantum Fund (up 32%/year after fees for 30 years), and the resignation of Stanley
 Druckenmiller, its portfolio manager since 1989. Why? Druckenmiller had resisted tech
 stocks until mid-1999, but then he invested and made a bundle in the second half. When
 he held on to most of them in 2000, they brought him heavy losses. The New York
 thought it was the eighth inning, but it was the ninth.'" Or as Soros admitted, "Maybe I
 don't understand the market. Maybe the music has stopped but people are still dancing."
 An analyst who dealt with both Robertson and Soros summed up aptly for the Times:

 The moral of this story is that irrational markets can kill you. Julian said,
 "This is irrational and I won't play," and they carried him out feet first.
 Druckenmiller said "This is irrational and I will play," and they carried him out
 feet first. (Emphasis added)

 And what about Gary Brinson, another top value stock investor? After he sold his firm to
 Swiss Bank Corp. and SBC merged with Union Bank of Switzerland, the combined firms
 had $920 billion under management and Brinson appeared well on his way to becoming
 the world's first trillion-dollar money manager. But either Brinson or his constituents
 lacked the resolve needed to hang in when his approach was out of fashion, and he
 announced his resignation on March 2. It was probably one more case of a wealthy man
 who saw no good reason to continue subjecting himself to the market's insults. Brinson
 became yet one more stellar investor who was kept from going out on top.

 By the mid-1990s, Warren Buffett had become a household name and a role model for
 millions of American investors. He is absolutely unique in that he became one of the
 world's richest men by investing in common stocks. All it took was a return averaging
 25% a year for 30 years. But his portfolio was flat in the raging bull market of 1999, and
 the stock price of his Berkshire Hathaway lost 49% from its 1998 high to its 2000 low.
 Buffett certainly has been treated with less awe in the last couple of years.

 Jeremy Siegel also came to be ignored. Who's Siegel? This Wharton professor was
 voted the best in the country, and his book "Stocks for the Long Run" contributed greatly
 to the bull market's middle years. He reported that there had been very few long periods
 of time in which stocks had lost money or underperformed bonds or cash, and this greatly

 buttressed investor confidence. But when his article "Big-Cap Tech Stocks Are a Sucker
 Bet" ran in the Wall Street Journal on March 14, 2000, it seemed to have no immediate
 effect on stock prices - the Nasdaq Composite was 5% higher ten days later.

 If these genuine geniuses have been dissed of late, who was elevated? Take the case
 of James Glassman and Kevin Hassett, the authors of "Dow 36,000." Utilizing
 Siegel's research, they concluded that because stocks are so low in risk, they should
 not provide a premium return versus bonds; thus, their return in the past was far higher
 than it should have been. In order for stocks to offer a prospective return that is
 appropriately low - say 6% - their current price should be higher. The broad market's
 P/E ratio should be 100, and the Dow should be at 36,000 now. Glassman and Hassett
 got a lot of ink in the Wall Street Journal in 1999, but I couldn't get past one question:
 Who's going to buy stocks to make 6% a year?

 And lastly, what about Frank P. Slattery, V, age 27, who entered the investment
 business in 1996. His smallish PBHG New Opportunities Fund was up 533% in 1999
 and another 96% in the first 70 days of 2000. Now that's genius! (However, in the
 new market environment, the fund was down 57% between March 10 and April 14,
 wiping out all of 2000' s gain and more. Slattery has resigned to pursue other
 opportunities.)

 In the choice of who should be canonized and who downgraded, the late
 1990s were certainly a time when reason was turned upside down.
 ***

 Speaking of the 1990s, I was recently asked to compare the 1980s' "Decade of Greed"
 with the latest iteration. In the 1980s, a few financially astute leveraged buyout
 operators attained prominence while trying to take over some of America's leading
 companies without much capital of their own. In the 1990s, in contrast, it seemed
 everyone in America tried to get rich quickly by jumping on a perpetual motion
 machine.

 One of the greatest irrationalities of the last few years has been the declining role of
 reason and fundamental business analysis in the setting of stock prices.

 First, a look at trading volume convinces me that the retail investor - acting either directly
 or through mutual funds - increasingly became the marginal transactor setting stock
 prices. I doubt institutional trading could have increased enough to account for 1.5
 billion shares a day on the NYSE and 2.0 billion shares a day on Nasdaq. (Circa 1980,
 when I bought Oppenheimer junk bonds whose interest was indexed to NYSE volume,
 the benchmark was the then-current average of 49 million shares a day.)

 Second, with the enormous popularization of stocks in the '90s, rank amateurs were
 pulled in, diluting the expertise of even the retail investment community. Many of these
 new investors were ignorant of the process through which stock prices historically have
 been based on earnings and dividends. They knew only that stocks went up and tech

 stocks went up faster. Valuation didn't matter: if you bought a stock with a good enough
 "story," someone else would pay you more for it.

 Third, the role of the brokerage house analyst changed. When I started doing equity
 research 31 years ago, the sell-side analyst tried to serve investors so as to attract trading
 and generate commissions. In the 1990s, with commission rates so low and the big
 money being made in investment banking, it became the sell-side analyst's job to
 generate capital market deal flow. The analyst tried to become influential with investors
 in order to endear himself to company management. Serious valuation work dwindled
 and "sell" recommendations became even more scarce: why antagonize a company
 whose investment banking business you're trying to attract? A recent Wall Street Journal
 quote from Morgan Stanley's Cisco analyst is emblematic of the analyst's new dog-
 chasing-its-own-tail role:

 We have to accept the facts of life. If investors want to buy these high growth
 companies, we are just trying to take what they are willing to pay and translate
 it into a target price and therefore a stock recommendation.

 In other words, it wasn't the analyst's job to throw cold water on the investor's party by
 pointing out that the target price had been reached or the price was too high. He just
 moved the target price up. And investment newcomers, unaware of how superficial this
 all was, actually attached some importance to the target prices assigned by analysts.

 Fourth, with reason lacking, the retail investor's approach came to be based on
 extremely simplistic thought processes.

 When momentum investing was working, the mantra was "buy stocks that have
 done well - they'll keep going up."

 When the inevitable pause in the rise swept the market - as it did in August
 1998, when Long-Term Capital and the emerging markets stumbled - the cry of
 "buy the dips" took hold, and it worked every time.

 On bad days recently, with the confidence behind the rise deflated (and with no
 reserve of reason there to back it up), I think it's been "sell before it goes down
 more."

 Investors with no knowledge of (or concern for) profits, dividends, valuation or the
 conduct of business simply cannot possess the resolve needed to do the right thing at the
 right time. With everyone around them buying and making money, they can't know
 when a stock is too high and therefore resist joining in. And with a market in free fall,
 they can't possibly have the confidence needed to hold or buy at severely reduced
 prices.

 And that brings me back to one of my favorite quotations from Warren Buffett:
 The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the
 prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs.

 Unless reversed, the damage of the last few weeks clearly demonstrates the extent to
 which the risky behavior of others can create peril for you. If it has taught another
 generation that stock ownership is not a riskless one-way street, that's a healthy
 development that should render such imprudent behavior less likely to reappear.
 ***

 While on the subject of investors' analytical capabilities, I want to take a look at stocks'
 failure for so long to respond to the Fed's rate increases. In earlier times, the market
 would decline as soon as a rate increase was hinted at, no less implemented. This time
 around, the Fed raised rates five times and Chairman Greenspan essentially came out
 and said the market was too high and he would bring it down. How can we explain the
 fact that there was no reaction (until recently, if that in fact did contribute to the
 correction)? I attribute this, also, to failings on the part of those setting stock prices.

 There are two main reasons why stocks fall when rates rise. I'll discuss them below
 and offer my explanation for their failure to gain traction this time:

 First, stocks dip because higher interest rates mean stiffer competition from fixed
 income investments. No one cared in 1999, however, because 61⁄2% wasn't any
 more tempting than 61⁄4% to someone expecting a sure 20% from stocks.

 Second, higher rates make it more expensive for consumers to buy houses and cars and
 for businesses to hold inventories, invest in machinery and build buildings. This puts a
 crimp in the pace of business and can lead to recession. But if the investors setting stock
 prices don't know (or care) how the economy and business cycle work, policy increases
 can be slow to impact the equity market.

 Rate increases depress stocks in the short run when people understand how they work
 and anticipate the longer-term effects described above. That is, they work because
 people agree they will work. If this requirement isn't met, then rate rises deserve the
 description that First Boston's Al Wojnilower ("Dr. Doom") applied in the 1970s to
 manipulating the money supply: "turning on and off a light switch to which no wires are
 attached."
 ***

 Why did stocks rise so rapidly in 1999? Because people were rabid to buy and no one
 wanted to sell to them. The result was explosive appreciation. Those gains actually
 signaled great illiquidity (which is measured as the percentage price change that results
 from buying or selling a certain dollar value of stock). However, an imbalance of buyers
 over sellers is never called illiquidity; it's called profit and doesn't worry anyone.
 U U

 In the last six weeks, however, the imbalance has been on the sell side. This time,
 investors' inability to find others willing to trade with them has forced prices down
 drastically, and they are calling it illiquidity. In other words, radical upward movement
 U U

 was greeted warmly, but radical downward movement is being attributed somewhat to a
 failing on the part of the market.

 Certainly the behavior of stocks in 1999 was viewed more benignly than it should have
 been. Momentum investors irrationally planned to get out when the music stopped, but
 the market wasn't able to accommodate all of them.
 ***

 I want to turn now to the subject of market efficiency, something that's very important
 to us at Oaktree and that I have been looking for a chance to discuss.

 In recent weeks I've heard good things about a new book, fittingly titled "Irrational
 Exuberance." Its author, Robert J. Shiller, a Yale economist, has taken on the theory
 that the stock market is efficient, saying stocks' swings are too violent to suggest that
 they are always accurately valued. On that famous Tuesday four weeks ago, the
 Nasdaq Composite traded at both 3,649 and 4,138 within seventy minutes. It's
 certainly hard to believe the underlying stocks were fairly valued at both levels. No,
 says Shiller, the stock market is not efficient; stock prices are set irrationally. Or as
 George Gilder recently wrote in the Wall Street Journal:

 Stock markets are world-wide webs of information. So why half the time do they
 behave like members of some candy mountain mystical sect, torn between dreams
 of eternal wealth and horror of a bottomless pit?

 In response, I want to give my view of market efficiency. I want to say up front that
 academics don't share my view and theory says I'm wrong. But my approach works for
 me, and I want to share it with you.

 In my opinion, the market for many stocks is highly efficient. That's what I was taught
 at the University of Chicago in the mid-'60s, when capital market theory was being
 developed. And in 1978, when I left equity research, I told Citibank I'd do anything
 but "spend the rest of my life choosing between Merck and Lilly." I believed in
 market efficiency then and I believe in it now. But what does that mean?

 When I say efficient, I mean "speedy," not "right." My formulation is that analysts
 and investors work hard to evaluate all of the available information such that:

 the price of a stock immediately incorporates that information and
 reflects the consensus view of its significance, and

 thus, it is unlikely that anyone can regularly outguess the consensus and
 predict a stock's movement.

 That is, the market may often misvalue stocks, but it's not easy for anyone
 person - working with the same information as everyone else and subject to the
 same psychological influences - to consistently know when and in which
 direction. That's what makes the mainstream stock market awfully hard to beat -
 even if it isn't always right.
 ***

 Lastly, I want to share what I told the board of a charity whose Investment Committee I
 chair. I listed some of the elements that have been at the foundation of prudent investing
 during my time in the business and more:

 pursuing both appreciation and income,
 balancing growth and value investments,
 balancing the desire for gain and the fear of loss,
 buying companies with a history of profitability,
 caring about valuation parameters,
 emphasizing cheap stocks,
 taking profits and reallocating capital,
 rotating industries, groups and themes,
 diversifying,
 hedging,
 owning some bonds, and
 holding some cash.

 How did this list do in 1999? It was a recipe for disaster! Every one of these elements
 would have caused you to underperform. What should you have done? Just two things:

 bought growth and technology stocks that had already appreciated, and
 held them as they rose further, refusing to sell at any price.

 Thus in one more way, wisdom was turned on its ear in this period.
 ***

 Robertson, Soros, Druckenmiller, Brinson and Buffett succeeded for decades because the
 markets they worked in (1) were driven by both fear and greed, (2) responded eventually
 U U

 to reason, and (3) rewarded disciplined analysis more than they did naked aggressiveness.
 That's the kind of climate we at Oaktree prefer. In the late 1990s, markets were propelled
 (and the big money was made) by people who, in my opinion, substituted optimism, risk
 tolerance and love of a good story for reason, caution and skepticism. If investors have
 been chastened by the events of the last few weeks, I think we'll see more of the latter in
 the future.

 P.S.: I've learned the hard way that it's not easy to be right about the future, as I've been
 complaining about market excesses for far too long. That being the case, I'm not going to
 miss the opportunity to celebrate the correctness to date of my last memo, "bubble. com."
 The table below lists the stocks mentioned in that memo and their declines from its
 publication at year end, and from the highs reached since then, to the April trough.

 %Chg % Chg


Memo: Investment Miscellany.

Because I've been encouraged by the response to my "bubble. com" and venture capital
 memos, I'm going to keep writing. Over time, I collect ideas that I'm tempted to pass on
 to you - nothing major, but miscellany that may be of interest. Sharing them might
 become a habit; let me know if you think it should.

 Can't Get Any Respect
 U

 The behavior of IPOs and hot tech stocks in the last few years perverted everything that
 traditionally had held true. The episode that crested in March must have been the greatest
 bubble of all times. Certainly money was made in amounts and at speeds never seen
 before. Companies went from business plan to IPO in a year or two, with billions of
 dollars assigned to them in market capitalizations or bestowed on their founders and
 venture capital backers.

 In the last twelve months, technology entrepreneurs and investors on both coasts bought
 homes costing several tens of millions of dollars. The line of eager buyers pushed up
 prices for private planes, yachts and beachfront homes. The market for art and antiques
 grew white hot. In short, as a friend of mine says, "money was disrespected."

 Traditional investing values were equally disrespected. Risk was viewed as the
 investor's friend, and caution as unnecessary and unavailing. Profits - and even profit
 projections - were considered superfluous. The slow and steady ways of making money
 came in last, and the riskiest schemes paid off best. Venture capital funds produced
 triple-digit returns in a year, and profitless technology company IPOs did so in a day.

 On the other hand, investors seemed incapable of remembering why they had fixed
 income allocations, and value stocks and absolute return strategies weren't far
 behind in terms of disregard. In May of 1999, I heard John Angelo of Angelo
 Gordon put it brilliantly:

 Twenty years ago, when I told people I could make them 15% a year, year in
 and year out, they said "That's impossible." Today, when I tell people I can
 make them 15% a year, year in and year out, they say "Who cares?"

 To illustrate, take the case of high yield bonds, whose prices have been sagging, partly
 because of steady capital flows out of high yield mutual funds (for redeployment in
 equity funds). I was asked the other day when flows into high yield bonds would
 resume. My answer: When people realize once again that 11 % is a good return.

 But this disrespect for traditional investment thinking shall pass--and in fact it appears to
 be in the process of doing so. In general, the portfolios that did best last year have done
 worst so far this year, and vice versa. Traditional investing values will be respected
 again. I can even imagine a day when words like "prudence" return to investors'
 everyday speech.

 It Restores Your Faith
 U

 If common sense and logic don't work, how are we to run our lives? In "bubble.com" I
 battologized (look that up in your Funk & Wagnall's) regarding the dot-coms'
 divergence from the old-fashioned notion that only if revenues exceed expenses is a
 business attractive. Instead, in 1999 business models were based on giving away
 products as a way to get ads in front of eyeballs, or on selling things for less than they
 cost.

 WebHouse Club is a poster child for failed giveaways. A spin-off of Priceline.com, it let
 customers name their own price for groceries and gas. There was a problem:
 manufacturers were unwilling to supply goods at the prices customers wanted to pay, so
 WebHouse made up the difference. In "bubble. com" I related several old jokes about
 the businessman who sells below cost, but I never expected to see life imitate art so
 precisely. Anyway, WebHouse's backers lost their enthusiasm for absorbing the losses
 (the fall of their Priceline stock from $170 to $3 may have had something to do with it),
 and the company ceased doing business on October 5.

 I find it reassuring that entrepreneurs (and, more significantly, the investors expected to
 fund them) are realizing that profitless "business models" are untenable. Internet retail
 firms are shutting down, especially those in overpopulated "spaces." Now, I'm told, the
 newest "b-to-c" among Silicon Valley employees is "back to consulting." Last year,
 Goldman Sachs had trouble recruiting the MBA it needed; this year the interview rooms
 are overcrowded again.

 U What Can Reasonably Be Expected from Equities?

 In a little drama that I'm sure has played out at thousands of organizations in the last
 year, a charitable organization investment committee that I chair began to question its
 conservative portfolio and ask whether it should have more in equities. As a result, we
 commissioned some bond/stock allocation work from our consultants. Its conclusions
 were most curious.

 Their model called for higher equity allocations, predicting that they would lead to higher
 overall returns on the portfolio and lower risk. Why? Because equities were projected to
 U U

 return 14% and risk was defined as the probability of failing to average 8% over a five-
 year period.

 First, I said, I would never have any part in a process that equated higher equity
 allocations with lower risk. I suggested that risk be defined as overall portfolio
 volatility, and that took care of that.

 But second, I questioned the 14% projected return from equities. Equities returned 28%
 in 1995-99, I said; did someone think halving that made for a conservative projection?
 No, I was told, the support mostly came-from the 13% long-run return on equities:--(I
 always thought it was 10% or so, but it seems the last five years have changed all that.)

 I could only think of one way to respond: I offered to put up my money against that of
 the consultant's researchers and "take the under." I doubt strongly that equities will
 return 14% or anything like it in the next decade. Corporate earnings have traditionally
 grown at single-digit rates, and I don't feel that's about to change substantially. With p/e
 ratios unlikely to rise further and dividends immaterial, single-digit earnings growth
 should translate into single-digit average equity performance at best for the foreseeable
 future.

 In the end, I feel there has been unreasonable reliance on the average historic return from
 equities, be it 10% for 1929-92 or 13% for 1940-99. What's been lost track of is the fact
 that p/e ratios were much lower when these periods began and since then have risen
 substantially. I just don't believe that further p/e expansion can be counted on. How do I
 view the issue? I ask the bulls one question: What's been the average performance of
 stocks bought at p/e ratios in the twenties? I don't think the return has been in double
 digits. I'm not even sure it's been positive.

 A Framework for Understanding Market Crisis
 U

 I want to call your attention to an excellent paper with the above title written by Richard
 Bookstaber, head of risk management for Moore Capital Management. It was published
 in the proceedings of an AIMR seminar on "Risk Management: Principles and
 Practices" (August, 1999). What smart people do is put into logical words the thoughts
 we may have had but never formulated or expressed. In his article, Bookstaber has
 done a great job of explaining the forces behind market crisis.

 I'll try to summarize his analysis, borrowing extensively from his words but adding my
 own interpretation and emphasis, there'll be some slow going, but I think you'll find it
 worthwhile.

 Most people think security price movements result primarily from the market's
 discounting of information about corporate, economic or geopolitical events - so-
 called "fundamentals." If you sit with a trader, however, it's easy to observe that
 prices are always moving in response to things other than fundamental information.

 Bookstaber says "the principal reason for intraday price movement is the demand
 market, in which the market is efficient and exists solely for informational purposes,
 this view is that the role of the market is to provide immediacy for liquidity
 demand and liquidity supply, the framework is in place for understanding what
 causes market crises, which are the times when liquidity and immediacy matter
 most."

 "Liquidity demanders are demanders of immediacy." I would describe them as
 holders of assets in due course, such as investors and hedgers, who from time to
 time have a strong need to adjust their positions: When there's urgency, "the
 the trade done immediately and are willing to pay to do so."

 "Liquidity suppliers meet the liquidity demand." They may be block traders, hedge
 fund managers or speculators with ready cash and a strong view of an asset's value
 who "wait for an opportunity when the liquidity demander's need for liquidity
 creates a divergence in price [from the asset's true value]. Liquidity suppliers then
 provide the liquidity at that price." What they offer is liquidity; providing liquidity
 entails risk to them (which increases as the market's volatility increases and as its
 liquidity decreases); and the profit they expect to make is their price for accepting
 this risk. "To liquidity suppliers, price matters much more than time."

 Usually when the price of something falls, fewer people want to sell it and more
 want to buy it. But in a crisis, "market prices become countereconomic," and the
 reverse becomes true. "A falling price, instead of deterring people from selling,
 triggers a growing flood of selling, and instead of attracting buyers, a falling price
 drives potential buyers from the market (or, even worse, turns potential buyers into
 sellers.)" This phenomenon can occur for reasons ranging from transactional (they
 receive margin calls) to emotional (they get scared). The number of liquidity
 demanders increases, and they become more highly motivated. "Liquidity
 demanders use price to attract liquidity suppliers, which sometimes works and
 sometimes does not. In a high-risk or crisis market, the drop in prices actually
 reduces supply [of liquidity] and increases demand."

 In times of crisis, liquidity suppliers become scarce. Maybe they spent their capital
 in the first 10% decline and are out of powder. Maybe the market's increased
 volatility and decreased liquidity have reduced the price they're willing to pay. And
 maybe they're scared, too. Bookstaber recalls the Crash of 1987. After the first leg
 down, liquidity suppliers "had already 'made their move,' risking their capital at
 much lower levels of volatility, and now were stopped out of their positions by
 management or, worse still, had lost their jobs. Even those who still had their jobs
 kept their capital on the sidelines. Entering the market in the face of widespread
 price volatility. It was caused by the crisis-induced demand for liquidity at a time
 that liquidity suppliers were shrinking from the market."

 "One of the most troubling aspects of a market crisis is that diversification strategies
 fail. Assets that are uncorrelated suddenly become highly correlated, and all
 positions go down together. The reason for the lack of diversification is that in a
 [volatile] market, all assets in fact are the same. The factors that differentiate them
 in normal times are no longer relevant. What matters is no longer the economic or
 financial relationship between assets but the degree to which they share habitat.
 What matters is who holds the assets." In recent years, the "habitat" in which most
 investors feel comfortable has expanded. Barriers to entry have fallen, access to
 information has increased and, perhaps most importantly, most investors' forays
 abroad have been rewarded. Thus "market participants become more like one
 another, which means that liquidity demanders all [hold] pretty much the same
 assets and grab whatever sources of liquidity are available." If they are held by the
 same-traders, "two types of unrelated-assets will become highly correlated
 because a loss in the one asset will force the traders to liquidate the other."
 That's not a bad explanation for the fact that when Long-Term Capital and the
 emerging markets crashed in September 1998, high yield bonds and other unrelated
 asset classes fell with them.

 I hope you'll recognize in the above some of the elements behind the Oaktree
 approach, as exemplified by our work with distressed debt.

 We look for Bookstaber's "liquidity demanders," with their exogenous
 motivations. We call them forced sellers, and they provide our best bargains.

 We take advantage when "noneconomic" market conditions increase the pressure
 to sell even as asset prices move lower.

 And we rarely approach holders to buy, preferring to wait until they call us. In
 that way we are "liquidity suppliers" rather than eager buyers. Take it from me,
 the latter pay more.

 Many of us may have had thoughts like Bookstaber's, and in my 30+ years in money
 management I've had plenty of chances to watch liquidity demand soar, liquidity supply
 dry up, prices collapse and diversification fail. But I respect someone who can put into a
 rigorous framework that which "everybody knows."

 Speaking of panics, we all recognize the carnage that occurs when the desire to sell far
 exceeds the willingness to buy. But I think Bookstaber's analysis applies equally to the
 opposite - times when the desire to buy outstrips the willingness to sell. It's called a
 buying panic and represents no less of a crisis, even though - because the immediate
 result is profit rather than loss - it is discussed in different terms. Certainly 1999 was
 just as much of an irrational, liquidity-driven crisis as 1987. While some of the
 ramifications have been seen thus far this year, I think there's more to come.

 Knowledge Versus Information
 U

 If Bookstaber's article made brilliant sense of a market phenomenon, what's the
 opposite? For an example, I would look to "Stock Hoax Should Affirm Faith in
 Markets" by James K. Glassman (Wall Street Journal, August 30). Glassman's name
 may be familiar to you, because my memo of May 1, 2000 took issue with "Dow
 36,000," a book he co-authored. Now it's a pleasure to take issue with him again.

 Glassman's book said the Dow should be at 36,000 because stocks' multiples should be
 much higher than they are. Multiples should be higher because there's so little risk in
 stocks, and thus investors needn't incorporate a risk premium. I didn't think that argument
 made any sense, and I don't think the recent article makes any, either. This time,
 Glassman argues that one of the things greatly reducing the riskiness of stocks is the
 technology being employed in the markets, most notably the Internet. Because
 information is disseminated so rapidly and thoroughly, investing entails less risk, so
 stocks are a better place to be. As he puts it, "The Internet - simply as a tool to get
 financial information out speedily - has had the effect of raising stock prices, perhaps
 permanently. In that way, the new technology has added hundreds of billions of dollars
 to the wealth of U.S. investors."

 Paradoxically, Glassman finds proof of this in the Emulex incident. On August 25, 2000,
 a false press release was picked up on the Internet, taking Emulex stock from $103 to $45
 within twenty minutes. After a few-hour trading halt, corrected information took it back
 above $100. Glassman's term for the markets: "dazzling in their efficiency."

 He finds comfort in the fact that both the falsified data and the correction were
 disseminated so quickly. I feel the rapid and universal distribution of information -
 often at speeds and in amounts that make it impossible to verify, distill and understand -
 does nothing to make the markets safer per se. For proof, look at the trend in volatility.
 It seems inescapable that media hype and other short-term oriented developments have
 made the markets more treacherous.

 Looking at today' s mass market and the associated flood of information, my partner
 Sheldon Stone sees investors as passengers on a boat, running back and forth en masse
 -to one side in response to new information, and then back to the other. That makes
 for a rocky crossing.

 Where does Glassman go wrong? To me, his error is obvious in the following sentence:

 Markets know so much more about companies, and know it so quickly,
 that their assessments of worth have an up-to-the-minute efficiency and
 accuracy.

 The bottom line for me: Efficiency and accuracy are two very different things. As I
 wrote in my May memo, investors rapidly incorporate new information into their
 estimates of security values, and the market rapidly reflects the consensus view of
 mere fact that investors have data doesn't mean they understand its significance. If
 investors' knowledge was really growing, stock volatility wouldn't be increasing as
 dramatically as it is. As the adage says of the fool, "he knows the price of everything and
 the value of nothing."


Memo: We're Not In 1999 Anymore, Toto.

In "The Wizard of Oz," a tornado carried Dorothy and her dog, Toto, to a land ruled by a
 mysterious despot in whom people had vested extraordinary powers. In the investment
 world of 1999, similarly, the promise of easy money powered a wild ride into a world in
 thrall to high tech investing. Both of these seemingly omnipotent forces were eventually
 exposed as vulnerable, however, and the spells surrounding Oz and the stock market were
 broken.

 * * *

 In my favorite commercial of 1999, Stuart, the cyber-geek from the mailroom, exhorted
 his boss to make his first on-line stock purchase, saying, "Let's light this candle!" When
 Mr. P. protested that he didn't know anything about the stock, Stuart suggested, "Research
 it." Mr. P. pushed a button on his keyboard and a few seconds later, suddenly wiser,
 proceeded to buy his first hundred shares. Like many, he demonstrated how easy it is to
 feel smart in a bull market.

 In 2000, on the other hand, on-line brokerage commercials were different. When the little
 boy asked his father what he was doing at the computer, the father said he was investing
 for his college education. Looking over his dad's shoulder, the boy was curious about the
 on-screen data. "Five-year earnings, p/e ratio . . ." the father enumerated. "A p/e ratio of
 23," the son asked, "is that good?" The father's dumbfounded silence clearly reflected his
 sudden realization that he knew less than he had thought.

 Obviously, in 2000, millions of investors across the board realized that they knew less
 than they thought they did, and that lots of what they had been sure of was wrong.

 * * *

 A year ago, I wrote in "bubble. com" that tech stocks had benefited in 1999 from a boom
 of colossal proportions. They exhibited all of the elements of a market bubble, with an
 attractive story providing the foundation for a gravity-defying escalation of prices far
 beyond reason, and for manic behavior on the part of investors. I urged readers to view
 the tech stocks skeptically, but I also acknowledged that it's possible for overpriced assets

 to remain so for a long time. I certainly had no idea that the excesses I saw in the
 market would be remedied as quickly as they have.

 The Bubble Bursts
 U

 In every regard enumerated in "bubble. com" and more, the tech-media-telecom extremes
 of 1999 were reversed in 2000. I must say I've never seen anything quite like it.

 Business models questioned - A year ago, I went to great lengths criticizing dot-com
 U U

 business models that valued eyeballs over profits and viewed operating losses as a good
 investment. This year, investors realized that the emperor was naked. The first signs
 came in articles like "Burning Up" (Barron's, March 20), which cited the rate at which
 Internet companies were using their finite cash to fund operating losses. More recently,
 "The Giveaway Is Going Away On Web Sites" (Wall Street Journal, December 4) stated
 that "many of the online companies that are in a sad state today can blame their woes on
 the cornucopia of free stuff and services they have been doling out to build market share."
 So now it's "p-to-p," or path-to-profit . . . just a little late. Technology entrepreneurs went
 through their cash, secure in the expectation that they could always raise more by selling
 shares to eager buyers. In today's market, as the British say, that's simply not on.

 Technology firms disrespected - Prospective investors (not to mention bankers, suppliers
 U U

 and landlords) now want to see profit potential. The laws of business are being enforced,
 meaning that money-losing companies can't attract additional capital. Scores of firms
 have closed, and tens of thousands of employees have lost their jobs. In perhaps the
 height of indignity, the Internet has been turned against its own, as dot-coms have been
 formed to chronicle the collapse of dot-coms. Log on to dotcomfailures.com for a list of
 more than eighty.

 Tech/media/telecom stocks brought low - Of course, the stocks that soared in 1999
 U U

 tanked in 2000. The 86% gain of the NASDAQ Composite in 1999 was the greatest in
 history for any major average. Its 39% loss in 2000 was the greatest in its history and, in
 terms of major averages, trailed only the 1931 drops in the Dow and S&P.

 Throughout my 30-plus years in the investment business, I have seen one localized boom
 after another. Each time, the end was marked by a Wall Street Journal table cataloging
 once-hot stocks that had fallen more than 90% from their highs. Conglomerates (late
 1960s), computer software and services (1969-70), the Nifty-Fifty (1973-4), oil stocks
 (early '80s) and biotech (early '90s) - they've all been there, and I felt certain that TMT
 stocks would join them sooner or later. The only difference is that in 2000, the top ten
 losers on the NASDAQ all declined more than 99%!

 The 14 stocks mentioned a year ago in "bubble.com" provide a pretty good sample;
 they're down 82% on average from their year-end 1999 prices and 87% from their highs
 in 2000. Eight of the fourteen are down 96% or more from the top (see the table on the
 last page for the details).

 IPOs no longer a sure thing - If you ask me, the most important single contributor to the
 U U

 tech stock bubble was the mania for Initial Public Offerings. When new issues began to
 double, triple and more on their first day of trading - and then triple again from there - a
 gold rush started. When the stock market valued profitless new ventures, only months
 after their formation, at multiples of their sales (and, illogically, at multiples of the price
 at which founders were gladly to sell), anything was possible. The lottery was on, and the
 improbable but huge payoffs going to the winners made every ticket valuable. Later,
 investors ignored the odds against success and acted as if all of the companies - even
 head-to-head competitors-would be winners. The perpetual motion machine eventually
 lost its momentum, of course, and it turned out that there's no sure thing. Although the
 IPOs of 2000 averaged a first-day gain of 55%, about two-thirds of them are now trading
 below their issue price.

 Venture capital rendered mortal - 1999 witnessed the wildest single market phenomenon
 U U

 I've ever seen: an asset class with a triple-digit annual return. The overheated IPO market
 provided an exit for the venture capitalists and contributed greatly to their fabulous
 profits. The model was simple: create a business plan (on the proverbial napkin), raise a
 little money, staff up and open the doors, spend wildly to build demand for products sold
 at a loss and go public at a hundred - or a thousand - times invested cost. In contrast to
 last year's banner headlines, 2000's venture capital stories are a little murkier. How did
 the funds do in 2000? Given the vagaries of pricing and the lags in reporting, no one has
 a good reading on performance yet.

 I want to highlight one thing, though: venture capital funds often distribute shares to
 investors and reckon the amount distributed based on the market price of the stock at the
 time. But if investors don't realize that price, their actual returns may be far lower than
 those claimed by the funds. If the subsequent declines are charged to the investors' public
 stock portfolios, we may never know what venture capital returns really were.

 Analysts defrocked - I think one of the usual hallmarks of a market mania is
 U U

 personification. This time around, the heroes included brokerage firm analysts like Mary
 Meeker and Henry Blodget, who were lionized in Internet chat rooms and whose target
 prices for stocks were given great credence by investors. It turns out, though, that many
 analysts weren't basing their targets on analytically-derived profit and p/e estimates but,
 in a stunning circularity, on what they thought investors might pay. It's now clear the
 analysts added little insight in terms of either fundamentals or valuation.

 The December 18 Wall Street Journal revisited six price targets. On average, the analysts
 predicted a 64% gain, but the stocks declined 88% instead. For me, the most telling
 U U

 thing was one analyst's alibi: "By setting [the target] only about 25% higher. . . we were
 indicating there was only a little more upside in the stock." I seem to remember when
 calling for a 25% gain was a bullish statement, not a warning. But then again, all kinds of
 nutty behavior typified this bubble.

 Odds and ends at the extreme - Numerous other elements, large and small, captured the
 U U

 excesses of the tech stock mania and their reversal.

 In 1999, incubators (CMGI and Internet Capital Group), technology industry
 participants (Intel and Amazon) and outsiders (Starbucks) were piling up profits in
 venture investments. This year, of course, it was losses that fell to the bottom
 line.
 The potential for stock option profits made dot-com jobs compellingly attractive
 last year, and old economy firms had no way to compete. This year, employees
 wanted cash instead, and what we read about is the negative effect of stock
 options on companies' finances.
 Last year, the media told of executives jumping from the old economy to dot-
 coms. This year's stories described surprise firings and careers left in the lurch.
 In 1999, brokerage house Internet conferences drew big crowds. 2000 saw
 conferences postponed and cancelled.
 Whereas tech stocks commonly reached triple-digit prices in 1999, now they're
 falling below $1 and being delisted by NASDAQ.
 Instead of experiencing dramatic capital inflows and perhaps closing to new
 investors, tech and Internet mutual funds are diversifying into other areas,
 merging with other funds or shutting down.
 Finally, in the most visible indicator, we'll see on January 28 that dot-coms will
 run only about 10% of the commercials during the Superbowl, down from 50%
 last year.

 Of course, the bottom line is that lots of things people considered eminently logical in
 1999 - like low-risk triple-digit gains - are now being shown to have been far too good to
 be true. The headlines of 1999 look silly now, and the debunking in 2000 seems obvious
 (e.g., "What Are Tech Stocks Worth, Now That We Know It Isn't Infinity?" in the Wall
 Street Journal on April 17). But that's a juxtaposition that marks the end of every market
 boom.

 How'd We Get Here?
 U

 In the 1990s, positive macro forces contributed to an extremely benign environment and
 steadily reinforced each other:

 low inflation,
 the shift of the federal budget from deficit to surplus,
 easy money at low interest rates,
 technological gains, and
 a high degree of risk tolerance.

 These things gave rise, in turn, to the elements of economic and investor prosperity:

 strong corporate and individual borrowing, leading to leveraged balance sheets,
 aggressive buying by businesses, consumers and investors,
 massive gains in productivity,

 unusually rapid growth in corporate profits, and
 strong appreciation in asset prices.

 Now, with some of the props removed or in question, we are seeing:

 retail and auto sales down,
 consumer and investor confidence off,
 factory orders falling and layoffs on the rise,
 profit warnings everywhere,
 risk aversion that has reasserted itself (or should we call it fear?),
 rising defaults, bankruptcies and troubled bank loans, and
 significantly lower stock and corporate bond prices.

 All of this is normal cyclical behavior. Cycles are one of the few things we can rely on,
 as you have heard me say repeatedly, and this downswing is moving along familiar lines.
 What surprised even me this time around is the rapidity and severity of these
 developments. Given the extreme nature of the ascent, though, I guess an equally
 extreme reversal is not unreasonable.

 Of course, former bulls will say this downturn was initiated/accelerated/exacerbated by
 unforeseen developments that blindsided them: skyrocketing prices for oil, gas and
 electric power; rising tensions in the Middle East; and the bizarre post-election chaos.
 But the important point is that something eventually derails every Pollyanna scenario. In
 1998, I criticized the oxymoronic attitude exemplified by "we're not expecting any
 surprises." Somehow, surprises always seem to occur. Expectations (and stock prices)
 that assume there won't be any are dashed sooner or later, and optimism turns to
 disappointment.

 I date this cycle's turning point in investor psychology to the third quarter of 1998, with
 the Russian default and the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management. Before that,
 investors seemed to consider risk their friend. They blithely interpreted the upward-
 sloping path of the Capital Market Line to mean that bearing more risk would reliably
 bring more return. (For example, one consultant told me his firm wouldn't recommend
 Oaktree's high yield bond management because they "wanted to maximize risk" and knew
 they couldn't accomplish that with us.) But the Russia and Long-Term fiascoes popped
 that balloon and reminded participants that risk-taking isn't always profitable.

 Here's an illustration of the impact of these events on psychology. According to CSFB,
 from the end of 1996 to the middle of 1998, the face amount of "distressed" bonds
 yielding more than 20% (and thus indicating grave concern over credit) grew just $6
 billion per year on average. But in the 2-1/3 years following Russia and Long-Term,
 from mid-l998 through October 31, 2000, the amount increased by an average of $38
 billion per year. Actual defaults grew only half as much over that period, ($18 billion per
 year), but investors' sharply reduced willingness to bear risk caused the distressed bond
 count to explode upward.

 (If I'm right in saying risk tolerance turned to risk aversion in 1998, you might ask how
 the tech/media/telecom boom could have continued into 1999 and early 2000. The
 answer: it's the exception that proves the rule. Even as investors were turning more
 conservative and capital was being withdrawn from hedge funds and banks' and brokers'
 proprietary portfolios, the crowd took to TMT investing in a way that ignited the IPO
 boom and everything that followed. It's often said that at the end of a bull market the vast
 majority of stocks weaken while one popular sector goes on to a highly extended extreme
 before collapsing. Certainly that's what happened in 1999, when the tech-dominated
 NASDAQ rose 86% at the same time that the S&P 500 excluding technology was up only
 3% (Wall Street Journal, December 21).

 In 2000, the last holdouts - the TMT aficionados - finally realized that they had
 overstated their companies' potential, ignored their dependence on a benign environment,
 understated the danger implied by the market's manic volatility and paid too much for
 their stocks. All of the positives of 1999 turned into negatives, with catastrophic results.

 The declines in the TMT stocks in 2000 provide a tangible reminder that psychology can
 change much faster than fundamentals. A little fundamental deterioration, when mixed
 with increased pessimism, can wreak absolute havoc with asset prices.

 Now What?
 U

 I see little chance that the boom-creating factors enumerated above - the hallmarks of the
 1990s - will characterize the next few years. In particular, I see higher risk aversion and
 tighter credit. But, of course, the prices of many stocks and bonds in the tech sector have
 undergone serious corrections. So the question to ask is "Have they fallen enough?"

 The answer is simple: I don't know. Nokia is down 55% from its high but still trades at
 61 times earnings (New York Times, December 2l). Qualcomm fell 53% but is still at 65
 times expected earnings (Los Angeles Times, December 31). Overall, the NASDAQ
 Composite, which includes many profitless companies, is valued at 90 times its
 companies' total earnings (Wall Street Journal, December 20).

 No one can know which way a market's going to go, but a few eternal truths and the right
 mindset - the significance of which has been reinforced by the experience of the last few
 years - can best prepare us to handle the inevitable uncertainty.

 Beware of generalizations - Most of the time, and especially at the extremes, markets
 U U

 over-generalize. Last year, investors acted as if all of the telecom companies would
 succeed; this year, investors seem to think they're all losers. In 1996 and 1997, financial
 institutions would lend to anyone; now, even strong companies have trouble getting
 capital. When the market "throws the baby out with the bathwater," as we believe it's
 doing now, gems can often be found among the wreckage. As a result, for example, our
 Distressed Debt and Principal groups are prospecting for overlooked values in telecom.
 Also flawed are many of the broad rules that investors invoke. In 1999, no cry was heard
 more often than "buy the dips." Each time the market dropped a bit, buyers stepped in.

 Anyone who bought in those declines benefited from the rallies that surely followed. Of
 course, that didn't work quite so well in 2000. The dips in March-April, May and July
 were all followed by rallies, but they were traps for unsuspecting buyers. Only "sell the
 rallies" proved correct.

 Respect cycles - There's little I'm certain of, but these things are true: Cycles always
 U U

 prevail eventually. Nothing goes in one direction forever. Trees don't grow to the sky.
 Few things go to zero.

 That was really the problem with the bubble. Investors were willing to pay prices that
 assumed success forever. They ignored the economic cycle, the credit cycle and, most
 importantly, the corporate life cycle. They forgot that profitability will bring imitation
 and competition, which will cut into - or eliminate - profitability. They overlooked the
 fact that the same powerful force that made their companies attractive, technological
 progress, could at some point render them obsolete.

 Worry about time - Another element that investors ignore in their optimism is time. It
 U U

 seems obvious, but long-term trends need time in order to work out, and time can be
 limited. Or as John Maynard Keynes put it, "Markets can remain irrational longer than
 you can remain solvent." Whenever you're tempted to bet everything on a long-run
 phenomenon, remember the six-foot tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was
 five feet deep on average.

 One of the great delusions suffered in the 1990s was that "stocks always outperform." I
 agree that stocks can be counted on to beat bonds, cash and inflation, as Wharton's Prof.
 Jeremy Siegel demonstrated, but only with the qualification "in the long run." If you have
 thirty years, you can rest assured that equity returns will be superior. For someone with a
 thirty-year time frame, the decline of the NASDAQ in 2000 may have been a matter of
 indifference. But it didn't feel that way to most people.

 Time came into play in another way for the TMT entrepreneurs. Many raised the money
 they needed for a year or two and proceeded to burn it up. They counted on being able to
 raise more later, but in 2000 capital was denied even to worthwhile ideas. Lots of
 companies never got the chance to reach profitability. More important than money, they
 ran out of time.

 Remember that, for the most part, things don't change - The five most dangerous words
 U U

 in our business aren't "The check's in the mail" but "This time it'll be different." Most
 bubbles proceed from the belief that something has changed permanently. It may be a
 technological advance, a shortage or a new fad, but what all three have in common is that
 they're usually short-lived.

 Most "new paradigms" turn out to be just a new twist on an old theme. No technological
 development is so significant that its companies' stocks can be bought regardless of price.
 Most shortages - whether of commodities or securities - ease when supply inevitably
 rises to meet demand. And no fad lasts forever.

 Never forget valuation - The focus may shift from dividend yield to p/e ratio, and people
 U U

 may stop looking at book value, but that doesn't mean valuation is irrelevant. In the tech
 bubble, buyers didn't worry about whether a stock was priced too high because they were
 sure someone else would be willing to pay them more for it. Unfortunately, the "greater
 fool theory" only works until it doesn't. Valuation eventually comes into play, and those
 who are holding the bag when it does are forced to face the music.

 Be conscious of investor psychology - I don't believe in the ability of forecasts or
 U U

 forecasters to tell us where prices are going, but I think an understanding of investor
 psychology can give us a hint. When investors are exuberant, as they were in 1999 and
 early 2000, it's dangerous. When the man on the street thinks stocks are a great idea and
 sure to produce profits, I'd watch out. When attitudes of this sort make for stock prices
 that assume the best and incorporate no fear, it's a formula for disaster.

 I find myself using one quote, from Warren Buffett, more often than any other: "The less
 prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater prudence with which we
 should conduct our own affairs." When others are euphoric, that puts us in danger. When
 others are terrified, the prices they set are low, and we can be aggressive. On December
 22, in "Consumer Mood Swings to Angst," the New York Times employed a new phrase:
 "irrational anxiety." If that sentiment does come to be widespread, replacing irrational
 exuberance, it can signal a buying opportunity.

 Check your own mindset - For me, mindset holds many of the keys to success. We at
 U U

 Oaktree believe strongly in contrarianism. As suggested in the paragraph above, that
 means leaning away from the direction chosen by most others. Sell when they're
 euphoric, and buy when they're afraid. Sell what they love, and buy what they hate.

 Closely related to contrarianism is skepticism. It's a simple concept, but it has great
 potential for keeping us out of trouble. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
 That phrase is always heard after the losses have piled up - be it in dot-coms, portfolio
 U U

 insurance, "market neutral" funds or the "Asian miracle." Oaktree was founded on the
 conviction that free lunches do exist, but not for everyone, or where everyone's looking,
 or without hard work and superior skill. Skepticism needn't make you give up on superior
 risk-adjusted returns, but it should make you ask tough questions about the ease of
 accessing them.

 We think humility is essential, especially concerning the ability to know the future.
 Before we act on a forecast, we ask if there's good reason to think we're more right than
 the consensus view already embodied in prices. As to macro projections, we never
 assume we're superior. About under-researched companies and securities, we think it's
 possible to get an edge through hard work and skill.

 Finally, we believe in investing defensively. That means worrying about what we may
 not know, about what can go wrong, and about losing money. If you're worried, you'll
 tend to build in more margin for error. Worriers make less when everything goes right, as
 in the tech bubble, but they also lose less - and stay in the game - when things return

 to earth. At Oaktree, we're guided more by one principle than any other: if we avoid the
 losers, the winners will take care of themselves.

 These are the things that Oaktree is built on, and that got our clients through 2000 in one
 piece. We can't promise that all of our investment decisions will be correct, but we can
 assure you they will embody these crucial ingredients for success in 2001 and beyond.

 Stocks Mentioned In "bubble.com" - January 1, 2000
 % Chng. % Chng.
 Company
 U U Symbol
 U U U U

 U

 # = below 50¢