Memo: Safety First . . . But Where?.

Are you from the old school? Do the following terms sound familiar?

 fiduciary duty
 preservation of capital
 risk aversion
 dividend yield

 Although in common use prior to the 1980s, they've been heard less and less since then.
 For this reason, a score of zero means you are completely modern, two means you're so-
 so, and four means you are far behind the times. I fall solidly into the last category. That
 means much of what I heard and read in the late 1990s made absolutely no sense to me.

 Of course, just as momentum investing eventually gives way to contrarianism (and vice
 versa), periods when carefree investing is highly rewarded eventually come to an end, as
 happened in 2000. I am writing to explore the question of where to look for successful
 investments when sheer aggressiveness stops paying off.

 "A-B-C," my Uncle Jack used to say when he taught me how to cross the street, "always
 be careful. Stop and look both ways." Most of us start off that way, but after a period
 when few cars come and the people who rush headlong get there fastest, caution
 sometimes is cast aside.

 Just as standing frozen with fear is no way to move ahead, investors occasionally are
 issued a reminder that not worrying about danger can be just as foolish. Pursuit of return
 must be balanced against aversion to risk. The latter came to be accorded far too little
 attention as the 1990s wore on, but that seems to have been corrected. Where can we
 look now for good risk-adjusted returns?

 What's Been Tried?
 U

 Common stocks - Among the mantras that were repeated in the past decade, few received
 U U

 as much credence as "stocks outperform." Wharton's Professor Jeremy Siegel
 documented in his book, "Stocks for the Long Run," that equities have beaten bonds,
 cash and inflation over almost all long periods of time. In fact, his graph of the
 movements of the stock market over the last 200 years looks like a straight line from
 lower left to upper right. Evidence like this convinced people to increase their equity
 allocations while continuing to sleep well. Little did they know that the price gains that
 made them feel so sanguine about their positions were dramatically increasing their risk.

 I am a great believer in common stock investing, but I hold tight to a few caveats:

 Return expectations must be reasonable.
 The ride won't be without bumps.
 It's not easy to get above-market returns.

 We live in the world's most productive economy, under a very effective capitalist system,
 at a wonderful point in time. In general, it's great to own productive assets like
 companies and their shares. But occasionally, people lose track of the fact that in the long
 run, shares can't do much better than the companies that issue them. Or to paraphrase
 Warren Buffett, when people forget that corporate profits grow at 8 or 9% per year, they
 tend to get into trouble.

 It's never clear what base period makes for a relevant comparison, but between 1930 and
 1990, annual returns from stocks averaged about 10% per year. Periods when they did
 better were followed by periods when they did worse. The better periods were usually
 caused by the expansion of p/e ratios, but valuations tended to return from the
 stratosphere, and returns roughly paralleled profit growth in the long run.

 There always will be bull markets and bear markets. The bull markets will be welcomed
 warmly and unskeptically, because people will be making money. They will be propelled
 to great heights, usually by the rationalization that "it's different this time; productivity,
 technology, globalization, lower taxation - something - has permanently elevated the
 prospective return from stocks."

 The bear markets will come as a shock to the unsuspecting, demonstrating that, most of
 the time, the world doesn't change that much. For example, when you look at Siegel's
 200-year straight-line stock market graph, no hiccup is visible in 1973-74. Try telling
 that to the equity investors who lost half their money.

 The bottom line is that risk of fluctuation is always present. Thus stocks are risky unless
 your time frame truly allows you to live through the downs while awaiting the ups. Lord
 Keynes said "markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent," and
 being forced to sell at the bottom - by your emotions, your client or your need for money
 - can turn temporary volatility (the theoretical definition of risk) into very real permanent
 loss. Your time frame does a lot to determine what fluctuations you can survive.

 Active management - In order to get more out of the ups and try to lessen the pain of the
 U U

 downs, most people turn to active management via market timing, group rotation,
 industry emphasis and stock selection. But it's just not that easy. The American Way -
 earnestly applying elbow grease - doesn't often payoff.

 As you know, I believe most markets are relatively efficient, and that certainly includes
 the mainstream stock market. Where lots of investors are aware of an asset's existence,
 feel they understand it, are comfortable with it, have roughly equal access to information
 and are diligently working to evaluate it, the market operates to incorporate their

 collective interpretation of the information into a market price. While that price is often
 wrong, very few investors can consistently know when it is, and by how much, and in
 which direction.

 The evidence is clear: most investors underperform the market. They (a) can't see the
 future, (b) make mistakes that keep them at a disadvantage, (c) accept high risk in their
 effort to distinguish themselves, and (d) spend money trying (in the form of market
 impact and transaction costs).

 Of course, there are individuals who beat the market by substantial margins, and they
 become famous. The mere fact that they attract so much attention proves how rare they
 are. (That's the meaning of the adage "it's the exception that proves the rule.") Adding to
 return without adding commensurately to risk requires rare understanding - of how
 money is made and what constitutes value - and far more managers promise it than have
 it. I was recently on a panel that was asked what gave our firms their edge. One panelist
 responded "we have 160 analysts around the world." To me, that response demonstrated
 a total lack of insight. Unless those 160 analysts are more astute than the average
 investor, they'll contribute nothing. Certainly another 160 wouldn't double the manager's
 ability to add value. (If they could, everyone would be an analyst.)

 Most active managers go through times when their biases or their guesses lead them to do
 things that beat their assigned benchmark, which they attribute to their skill, and times
 which are the opposite, which they attribute to being blindsided by the unforeseeable (or
 to some defect in the benchmark). But these are two sides of the same coin, and in the
 long run the average manager adds little. Usually, active management will not allow you
 to beat the stock market, or to enjoy the fruits of the market without fully bearing its risk.

 Indexed equities - Thirty years or so ago, investors began to concede that while it was
 U U

 desirable to participate in the stock market, it wasn't worth trying to beat it. Under
 prodding from academics at the University of Chicago and practitioners such as John
 Bogle of Vanguard, there began a trend toward index funds, with their low costs and
 assured inability to underperform.

 The essence of index investing was a "passive portfolio" that represented a relatively
 unbiased sample of the universe of stocks. The Standard and Poors' 500 was the
 immediate choice and quickly became synonymous with "stocks" and "the market."

 With every period in which active managers underperformed, the trend toward indexing
 got another boost. The percentage of equities held via index funds rose. In the mid-to-
 late 1990s, when large-cap growth stocks hogged the spotlight, passive investing
 outperformed. (That's an oxymoron, isn't it?) But as the groups most heavily represented
 in the S&P did best, indexation was in fact looked at as an offensive weapon.

 As the tech stock boom reached its apex in 1999, even the keepers of the S&P 500
 succumbed to the trend. In order to stay "modern" and "representative," they threw out
 low-priced Old Economy stocks that had lagged and substituted hot tech names such as
 Yahoo!, Broadcom, JDS Uniphase and Palm. The effect - the error - was classic.

 Adding a fast-rising tech stock to the S&P made index funds buy it, as well as active
 managers measured against the S&P. This added further to the stock's momentum, in a
 self-fulfilling cycle.

 By the end of 1999, technology stocks constituted roughly 40% of the S&P, and thus it no
 longer delivered "unbiased" participation in equities. Prudent index investors looked for
 alternatives like the Russell 5000, while trend-followers threw more and more money into
 the S&P. As usual, investors got carried away with the simplistic solution; in some
 people's minds, index funds' infallibility was transmuted from "incapable of failing to
 capture the gains of stocks" into "incapable of performing poorly." Of course, money
 flooded in.

 The cycle turned, as it inevitably does. The recently added tech stocks hurt the S&P in
 2000, and indexers underperformed active managers. On March 30, 2001, The Wall
 Street Journal wrote: "For investors with index-fund holdings, the market downturn
 makes the forget-about-it approach a much less appealing strategy then when stocks are
 climbing." As the kids say, "Duh!"

 Stocks of great companies - Over the years, buying and holding the stocks of leading
 U U

 companies has been a favorite way to strive for high return and low risk. In 1999 I heard
 lots of people say they were buying Microsoft, Intel and Cisco because they were sure to
 lead the technology miracle. They still are, and yet their stocks are now down 53%, 68%
 and 83%, respectively, from their highs.

 People too easily forget that in determining the outcome of an investment, what you
 buy is no more important than the price you pay for it. As Oaktree consistently
 demonstrates, we'd much rather buy a so-so asset cheap than a great asset dear.

 The stocks of great companies often sell at prices that assume their greatness can be
 perpetuated, and usually it cannot. While in business school in the 1960s, I read a
 brochure from Merrill Lynch introducing a novel concept called growth stock investing.
 Many of the stocks it profiled went on to be pillars of the Nifty-Fifty by the time I joined
 the First National City Bank in 1969. It was the party line that if the company you invest
 in is good enough and growing fast enough, there's no such thing as too high a price.
 Along with lots of companies that are still considered great, the Nifty-Fifty included such
 average companies of today as Avon, Kodak and Polaroid. Starting from their 1973
 highs, we estimate these stocks' respective annual returns at .4%, (.4%) and (10.4%)!
 "Great company today" doesn't mean "great company tomorrow," and it certainly U U

 doesn't mean "great investment."

 On February 7, 2001, the Wall Street Journal carried "Unsafe Harbors: Folks Who Like
 To Buy A Stock and Forget It Face Rude Awakening." It said,

 Big, industry-leading companies are being rocked by everything from
 deregulation to cutthroat competition to fast-changing technology that can shift an
 industry's balance overnight. The speed of change today is changing the concept

 of a few safe stocks, which you can just buy and sock away, into almost an
 investment relic.

 The Journal supplied lots of evidence showing how risky it can be to buy and hold stocks
 thought to be great:

 Among the 50 largest stocks in the S&P 500, almost half lost 20% of their value
 last year; . . . even in 1999' s bull market 10 of these top 50 stocks fell by that
 much.
 Ten of the 50 biggest stocks lost 20% in a single day last year.
 In each of the past three years, an average of eight of the 50 stocks in the S&P 500
 sporting the highest dividend [yields] dropped 20% or more in a month.

 A February article in Fortune magazine, covering 1960-80, 1970-90 and 1980-99, showed
 that out of 150 candidates among large companies, only four or five in each period were
 able to grow earnings per share at 15% per year on average. Can you guess the only
 company that did it in all three periods? It was Philip Morris. And yet despite that
 unequalled record, its stock rose only 7.6% per year in 1991-99, (13.0% per year behind
 the S&P 500), because of concern over tobacco litigation.

 Pursuing quality regardless of price is, in my opinion, one of the riskiest - rather
 than the safest - of investment approaches. Highly respected companies invariably fall
 to earth. When investors' hopes are dashed, the impact on price is severe. For example, if
 a high p/e ratio is attached to earnings that are expected to grow rapidly, an earnings
 shortfall will cause the p/e ratio to be reduced, bringing about a double-barreled price
 decline.

 Lord Keynes wrote "speculators accept risks of which they are aware; investors accept
 risks of which they are unaware." As Keynes's definition makes clear, investing in the
 stocks of great companies that "everyone" likes at prices fully reflective of greatness is
 enormously risky. We'd rather buy assets that people think little of; the surprises are
 much more likely to be favorable, and thus to produce gains. No, great companies are not
 synonymous with great investments . . . or even safe ones.

 High-grade bonds - After several years in investment exile, traditional fixed income
 U U

 instruments racked up good absolute returns and super relative returns in 2000. (For
 example, the Lehman Brothers Government/Credit Index was up 11.9%.) But don't bet
 on a repeat.

 First, I don't believe bonds should be bought with an expectation that their returns will
 exceed their promised yields. That means 4-6% on governments and 6-8% on high-grade
 corporates.

 Second, government bonds are quite highly priced today, thanks to:

 the flight to quality that resulted from the pain in the stock and high yield bond
 markets,

 the current low level of inflation, and
 the looming scarcity of Treasury securities as budget surpluses erase the Federal debt
 (I'm not quite sure I buy that one).

 Third, high-grade corporates have not been an unfailing source of safety. The February 7
 Journal story referenced above included the observation that "of corporate bonds rated
 investment grade, an unprecedented 3% fell 30% or more in price last year, according to
 Merrill Lynch & Co."

 The pundits - As usual, the cresting of stocks in 1999/early 2000 was caused and/or
 U U

 accompanied by the vesting of special powers in "experts." I have previously railed
 against the brokerage house analysts who set price targets based on where they guessed a
 stock could sell and gave out "buy" ratings to drum up corporate finance business.

 The current targets for my wrath are the talking heads from CNBC and its competitors. I
 resent the role they played in the popularization of equity investing, in the bubble that
 developed, and in the debacle that followed. They're glad to opine on what stocks are
 worth, why they went up or down yesterday, and what they're going to do tomorrow. But
 the more I listen, the more I feel the absence of a few key phrases like "beats the heck out
 of me" and "darned if I know." I think one of the elements that roped in so many people
 and convinced them they could invest safely despite their lack of expertise was the
 media's repeated message that these things were knowable. Some of the confidence of
 these personalities has evaporated of late.

 The Fed - The trend of personalizing described above reached its apogee in the
 U U

 deification of Alan Greenspan. For almost fourteen years, Greenspan has done an
 excellent job at the Fed. He kept a weather eye out for signs of inflation and took steps to
 avert it when needed. He wisely injected liquidity into the financial system in times of
 crisis. And he made every effort to keep a steady hand on the economy, trying to avoid
 sudden moves that could unsettle the participants.

 He has presided over a terrific economy; I can't imagine a better one. I phrase that
 carefully, because it will be debated whether he made it great or it made him great.
 People who know things I don't will decide the question.

 In January, the markets demonstrated their great faith in Greenspan by leaping forward
 when the first interest rate cut was announced. "Surely Greenspan will be able to avoid a
 cessation of growth." Investors were highly confident that he would be able to save them.
 Yet in 1998-9, when he as good as said "I'm going to slow the economy and rein in this
 irrational exuberance," no one acted as if he could, and the market continued to roar.

 That is, investors first disregarded his power to throw cold water on the party but later
 had great faith that he could keep it going. I think this demonstrates their lack of
 objectivity and the selectiveness of their perception. No one can build the perpetual
 motion machine investors hope for, but that doesn't mean they'll stop hoping.

 The sure thing - In fact, that brings me to the bottom line. Even though people have
 U U

 always looked for the silver bullet, the easy answer and the free lunch, there is no such
 thing. "Hope springs eternal," they say, or is it greed? Everyone wants the riskless route
 to riches, but markets exist to make sure it can't exist for long.

 No one has all the answers. Lots of people can guess the direction of the market once or
 twice, or pick the right stock or group, but very few can do it consistently. That doesn't
 keep investors from following the latest Messiah who's been right once in a row. But no
 one seems to ask "if he knows what's going to happen, why is he telling me?"

 No rule is valid all the time. Buy growth; buy value. Buy large-cap; buy small-cap. Buy
 domestic; buy international. Buy developed; buy emerging. Buy momentum; buy
 weakness. Buy consumer; buy tech. I've seen them all.

 There is no perfect strategy. People flocked in droves to growth stock investing, real
 estate, portfolio insurance, Japanese stocks, emerging market stocks, tech stocks, dot-
 corns and venture capital. Each worked for a while and sucked in more and more
 investors. But in each case, success eventually pulled in enough money to guarantee
 failure.

 Over the years, performance has constantly improved in areas like golf. That's because
 while the participants develop new tools and techniques, the ball never adjusts and the
 course doesn't fight back. But investing is dynamic, and the playing field is changing all
 the time. The actions of other investors will affect the return on your strategy. Just as
 nature abhors a vacuum, markets act to eliminate an excessive return.

 So Then What Do We Do Now?
 U

 I have a few things to suggest that may help in the years that lie ahead. None of them will
 prove easy to implement, however. None will give you that sure thing.

 Accept change - Among the important elements that clients, consultants and managers
 U U

 must possess is adaptability. The only thing you can count on is change. Even if the
 fundamental environment were to remain unchanged - which it won't - risk/return
 prospects would change because (a) investors will move the prices of assets, certainly in
 relative terms, and (b) investor psychology will change. That's why no strategy, tactic or
 opinion will work forever. It's also why we have to work with cycles rather than ignore
 or fight them.

 Search for alpha - In doing so, however, it's essential to understand:
 U U

 what alpha is,
 what markets permit it, and
 who has it.

 To me, alpha is skill. It's the ability to profit from things other than the movements of
 the market, to add to return without adding proportionately to risk, and to be right more
 often than is called for by chance.

 More important, alpha is differential advantage; it's skill that others don't possess.
 U U

 That's why knowing something isn't alpha. If everyone else knows it, that bit of
 knowledge gives you no advantage.

 Lastly, alpha is entirely personal. It's an art form. It's superior insight; some people just
 "get it" better than others. Some of them are mechanistic quants; others are entirely
 intuitive. But all those I've met are extremely hard working.

 You want managers who have alpha, and you want them to be working in markets that
 permit it to be put to work. Only in markets that are not efficient can hard work and skill
 pay off in consistently superior risk-adjusted returns. I always say if you gave me 20
 Ph.D.s and a $100 million budget, I still couldn't predict the coin-toss before NFL games.
 That's because it's something into which no one can gain superior insight. When someone
 says "my market is inefficient" or "I have alpha," make him prove it.

 You want to be sure the claimed alpha is there. Just about everyone in this business is
 intelligent and articulate. It's not easy to tell the ones with alpha from the others. Track
 record can help but (a) it has to be a long one and (b) it's still possible to play games.

 My advice to you is that when you find managers who do what they promise and seem to
 do it well, stick with them. Even the best manager won't be infallible, but staying with
 those who've demonstrated skill and reliability will reduce the probability of
 disappointment. I don't expect much out of market returns in the years ahead, so alpha
 will be more important than it was in the 1990s.

 Pursue non-market-based returns - The period since I started managing money in 1978
 U U

 has been incredible. There were a few bad days and quarters, but through 1999 there
 wasn't a single year with a return on the S&P 500 worse than minus 4.8%. From 1978
 through 1999, the return on the S&P 500 averaged 17.6% per year. 111at rose to 20.6%
 for 1991-99 and 28.3% for 1995-99. I doubt there's ever been a better 22-year run; to ask
 for more would be just plain piggish. But I don't think it'll be anything like that in the
 years just ahead.

 The observers I most respect foresee single digit returns. Stock market returns have three
 components: profit increase, multiple expansion and dividend yield. The last is minimal
 and the second can't be counted on from here. So that means we're down to the rate of
 increase in corporate profits, which is likely to be in single digits. Returns like that would
 be somewhat below the historic average, but after such a great 22-year period, a little
 correction wouldn't be unreasonable.

 So if stocks are poised for unexciting single-digit returns, (and if the period ahead may be
 marked by more negative surprises than the recent past, which I believe), what looks
 promising? I suggest you search for returns that are not predicated on market advances.

 Coupon interest provides a good start, so high yield bonds and convertibles are likely
 candidates. Distressed debt is an example of a non-prosperity-oriented strategy that
 should work well.

 Lastly, I would take a good look at "absolute return-type" strategies. These are designed
 to systematically take advantage of market inefficiencies and to capture managers' alpha
 while limiting susceptibility to fluctuations. Arbitrage, long/short, hedge and market-
 neutral strategies fall into this category. Most strive to earn returns in the teens on a
 consistent basis, with relative indifference to the performance of the mainstream markets.

 I think investors are about to move into these areas en masse for a number of
 reasons:

 because they did well in recent years, and especially well amid the chaos of 2000,
 because of the pain inflicted by stocks over the last twelve months, and
 because of the modest prospects in the mainstream markets.

 I expect hedge funds and absolute return funds to be promoted heavily by brokerage
 firms, mutual fund organizations and investment advisers and to become the next
 investment fad. And there's good reason why they should. Especially given the
 competition from the mainstream, an appropriate mantra for the 2000s might be "low
 double digits ain't bad." If you can identify managers who possess enough alpha to
 consistently deliver such returns, you should hire them. And there's a better-than-average
 chance they'll be found in the hedge fund arena, where managers get a share of the profits.

 However, that doesn't mean a few caveats aren't in order:

 Expectations must be reasonable. Investors must realize that very few managers are
 truly capable of earning 12% or 15% steadily and with low correlation to the
 mainstream markets. Anything approaching 20% is Herculean.

 Most returns really won't be "absolute." I have seen lots of "hedge" and "market
 neutral" funds drop precipitously. That's because it's unusual for portfolio returns to
 be entirely divorced from their environment. For example, one of the things currently
 attracting attention is the excellent performance of risk arbitrage last year. But
 something systematically favorable may have occurred in 2000, and thus it could turn
 systematically unfavorable in some future year. I've often said "zero correlation" may
 not be attainable; "low correlation" may have to suffice.

 Money flows will playa big role. In general, the good records have been built on
 small amounts of money. And those records will attract large amounts of money.
 There are several consequences.

 First, records simply may not be capable of extrapolation. To handle more money, a
 manager may have to invest faster, put more dollars into each position, put on a larger
 number of positions, broaden the fund's range of activities, add new staff members

 and/or reduce selectivity. All of these can have negative implications. George Soras
 and Julian Robertson had terrific records, but they eventually reached $20 billion and
 lost their specialness.

 Second, many of the best managers with alpha and discipline are already closed to
 new money, or will reach the point when they are. Thus in the extreme, as Groucho
 Marx would have put it, "I would never invest my money with anyone who'd take it."

 And third, when there's too much money in an area, even funds that are closed can be
 affected. Long-Term Capital found others emulating its trades and eventually lost its
 opportunity because too much money had piled into its niches.

 The wrong people will get money. The rush to invest in an area gives money to
 managers who shouldn't get it. When the best are closed, the rest will be funded.
 Second-string managers will split off from established groups and get money based on
 their old fund's record (regardless of how much of it was theirs). Thus, as the amount
 of money in the area rises, the average quality of the managers may fall.

 Fees can eat up alpha. When the demand for funds outstrips supply, fund managers
 have the ability to raise fees and thereby appropriate for themselves a larger portion of
 their funds' returns.

 Disappointments will be many. Due to the factors enumerated above, the next few
 years will see many investors fail to get what they hoped for . . . as usual. One of my
 favorite sayings is "what the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the
 end." Over the last 20-30 years, a few talented managers built successful hedge funds
 on relatively small amounts of capital. I believe the period ahead will see lots of
 people raise more than they should; thus it will have to be navigated with care.

 Investment trends certainly run the risk of being carried to extremes. (For an example,
 take a look at venture capital in 2000.) Despite this, I think absolute return investing
 deserves your attention. But you should commit only after a lot of investigation and with
 your eyes wide open. No process, no label, no strategy will deliver performance in and of
 itself. Exceptional low-risk performance requires a partnership between skillful,
 disciplined money managers and insightful, hard-working clients.


Memo: What's It All About, Alpha?.

With apologies to Burt Bacharach and Dionne Warwick, whose 1966 rendition for the
 movie "Alfie" was much more artistic, I couldn't resist adapting their title for a memo on
 investment theory.

 What's it all about, indeed? Everyone talks about alpha . . . and beta, risk and return, and
 efficiency and inefficiency. But I believe few people use them to mean the same thing, or
 correctly. Thus the thinking I did about alpha while writing "Safety First" in April has
 convinced me to set out my views on all of these subjects.

 In this connection, my 1967-69 attendance at the University of Chicago Graduate School
 of Business was pivotal. I had previously been at a non-theoretical Wharton, where I
 learned investment practice à la Graham and Dodd but not one word on what I'm about to
 discuss. At Chicago I found a new theory of investments that would revolutionize the
 field. My exposure to it was eye-opening and kept me from becoming an unquestioning
 member of what I call the "I know" school of investing (where people think a little effort
 is all it takes to know the future direction of any stock or market). The 32 years since
 Chicago have given me enough time to forget a lot of the theory I learned . . . but also,
 most importantly, the real-world experience needed to leaven it, leading to my own
 synthesis of theory and practice.

 Market efficiency - A great deal of how one views the investment world depends on
 U U

 one's position on the subject of market efficiency. Rather than reinvent my own wheel,
 I'll lift parts of my memo "Irrational Exuberance" from May 2000. (Thankfully, when
 you copy from yourself it's not plagiarism.)

 First, I'll provide my take on the efficient marketeers' view. Then, I'll describe my own
 version of market efficiency. I'll admit again that academicians don't share my view and
 theory says I'm wrong. But my approach works for me, and I'll restate it below.

 While at Chicago, one of the first things I studied was the Efficient Market Hypothesis,
 which states:

 There are many participants in the markets, and they share roughly equal access to all
 relevant information. They are intelligent, highly motivated and hard working. Their
 analytical models are widely known and employed.

 Because of the collective efforts of these participants, information is reflected fully
 and immediately in the market price of each asset.

 Thus, market prices provide accurate estimates of assets' intrinsic value, and no
 participant can consistently identify and profit from instances when they are wrong.

 Assets therefore sell at prices from which they can be expected to deliver risk-
 adjusted returns that are "fair" relative to other assets. Riskier assets must offer higher
 returns in order to attract buyers. The market will set prices so that appears to be the
 case, but it won't provide a "free lunch." That is, there will be no incremental return
 that is not related to (and compensatory for) incremental risk.

 I believe strongly that some markets are quite efficient, including those for the world's
 leading stocks and bonds. Take international fixed income, for instance. Here, people try
 to decide whether British, French or German government bonds are the cheapest at a
 given time and establish portfolio weightings accordingly. The primary differences
 between these bonds, it seems to me, relate to their issuing countries' rates of economic
 growth and inflation. But it's to make allowance for those differences that there exist
 differential interest rates and floating exchange rates. And aren't those some of the
 world's most closely watched phenomena, with hundreds of sophisticated financial
 institutions on both sides of every question? Can any one participant realistically expect
 to be able to do a superior job in such a market?

 Stocks are less homogenous, and there's more to choose between them, but I still think the
 market for popular stocks is efficient. That's the reason why, when I left equity research
 in 1978, I told Citibank I would "do anything other than spend the rest of my life
 choosing between Merck and Lilly." I believed in efficient markets then, and I believe in
 them now. But what do I mean?

 When I say efficient, I mean it in the sense of "speedy," not "right." I agree that because
 investors work hard to evaluate every new piece of information, asset prices immediately
 reflect the consensus view of the information's significance. I do not, however, believe
 the consensus view is necessarily correct. In January 2000, Yahoo! sold at $237. In
 April 2001 it was at $11. Anyone who argues that the market was right both times has his
 head in the clouds; it has to have been wrong on at least one of those occasions. But that
 doesn't mean many investors were able to detect and act on the market's error.

 If prices in efficient markets already reflect the consensus, then sharing the consensus
 view will make you likely to earn just an average return. To beat the market you must
 hold an idiosyncratic, or non-consensus, view. But because the consensus view is as
 close to right as most people can get, a non-consensus view is unlikely to make you more
 right than the market (and thus to help you beat the market).

 The bottom line for me is that, although the more efficient markets often misvalue
 assets, its not easy for anyone person - working with the same information as
 everyone else and subject to the same psychological influences - to consistently hold
 views that are different from the consensus and closer to being correct. That's what
 U U

 makes the mainstream markets awfully hard to beat - even if they aren't always right.

 Inefficiency - Although I spent a lot of time last year discussing efficiency, I didn't touch
 U U

 on inefficiency. This is a word I've heard misused terribly, usually as a synonym for
 "cheap," as in "the oils were fully priced last year but now they're really inefficient." First
 of all, inefficiency doesn't come and go in quick bursts. Markets are inefficient for
 longer-term structural reasons relating primarily to shortcomings on the part of their
 participants and infrastructure. Second, "inefficient" absolutely does not mean "cheap"
 (or "dear").

 To me, an inefficient market is one that is marked by at least one (and probably, as a
 result, by all) of the following characteristics:

 Market prices are often wrong . Because access to information and the analysis
 U U

 thereof is highly imperfect, market prices are often far above or far below intrinsic
 values.

 The risk-adjusted return on one asset class can be far out of line with others . Because
 U U

 assets are often valued at other-than-fair prices, an asset class can deliver a risk-
 adjusted return that is significantly too high (a free lunch) or too low relative to other
 asset classes.

 Some investors can consistently outperform others . Because of the existence of (a)
 U U

 significant misvaluations and (b) differences between participants in terms of skill,
 insight and information access, it is possible for misvaluations to be identified and
 profited from with regularity.

 This last point is very important in terms of what it does and does not mean. Inefficient
 markets do not necessarily give their participants generous returns. Rather, it's my
 view that they provide the raw material - mispricings - that can allow some people
 to win and others to lose on the basis of differential skill. If prices can be very wrong,
 U U

 that means it's possible to find bargains or overpay. For every person who gets a good
 buy in an inefficient market, someone else sells too cheap. One of the great sayings about
 poker is that, "In every game there's a fish. If you've played for 45 minutes and haven't
 figured out who the fish is, then it's you." The same is certainly true of inefficient market
 investing.

 In inefficient markets, then, it's essential that a manager have superior personal skill, or
 "alpha" (see below). It's actually far more important than in efficient markets, where
 prices are so well aligned that it's hard to perform far off the average. Good evidence on
 this subject is found in the table on the next page, from "Pioneering Portfolio
 Management" by David Swenson of Yale.

 Dispersion of Active Management Returns
 Identifies Areas of Opportunity
 Asset Returns by Quartile, Ten Years Ending December 31, 1997

 Asset Class First Quartile Median Third Quartile Range

 As the table shows, the range between the 25 th percentile and the 75 th percentile of
 P P P P

 investors in what I think are relatively inefficient markets (venture capital and leveraged
 buyouts) is much broader than it is in more efficient markets (mainstream stocks and
 U U

 bonds). This supports the belief that in inefficient markets, either (a) prices diverge more
 from intrinsic values, (b) there's more variation among investors in terms of skill, (c) that
 variation has more impact, or (d) all of the above. Any way you slice it, hiring a superior
 manager is more crucial in the inefficient markets.

 Return - The terms alpha and beta are derived from the basic form of an algebraic
 U U

 equation, which is:

 y = a + bx

 Thus in investments we say a portfolio's result can be predicted by the equation:

 return = alpha + (beta x the market's return)

 Beta is a coefficient equal to the proportion of the market's return that the portfolio can be
 expected to capture. It can best be described as "degree of responsiveness" to the market,
 or "relative volatility." An S&P index fund will have a beta of 1.0 relative to the S&P
 500 (that is, it will go up and down at the same rate as the S&P). An S&P index fund
 leveraged two to one would have a beta of 2.0 (i.e., it will have twice the response). A
 portfolio consisting of half S&P index fund and half cash will have a beta of .5. A
 defensive equity portfolio might be expected to have a beta of .7.

 Turning up your beta, whether through the use of leverage or by emphasizing more
 volatile holdings, is certainly one way to try to add to your return. Under investment
 theory it's the only way, since "beta x the market's return" is the only non-zero term in the
 above equation (more on this later). The trouble with relying on a high beta to enhance
 your return is that it's entirely symmetrical. It cuts both ways, subtracting as much when
 it's wrong as it adds when it's right, which means that it does nothing to increase your
 expected return unless the underlying decisions are right. It epitomizes the Las Vegas

 saying that "the more you bet, the more you win when you win" (but also, as I like to
 point out, the more you lose when you lose).

 Alpha is a variable equal to the contribution resulting from the skill of the portfolio
 manager. As I wrote in "Safety First," alpha is the ability to profit consistently from
 things other than the movements of the market, to add to return without adding
 proportionately to risk, and to be right more often than is called for by chance. Examples
 of its ingredients include superiority in (a) collecting and analyzing information, (b)
 discerning which factors are most important in determining future value, and (c) resisting
 the market's manic-depressive fluctuations.

 Alpha is what's lacking when a market is efficient. But just as I believe there are some
 relatively efficient markets, I'm also sure people with alpha exist, as well as less efficient
 markets where it can be put to good use.

 It's essential to recognize that investment skill isn't distributed evenly - that the
 investment world isn't democratic or egalitarian. That's why Peter Vermilye, the
 Citibank boss who steered me toward convertibles and high yield bonds, says only the top
 10% of analysts contribute anything. It's also why I think so little of investment
 management firms that describe their edge in terms of head count; an army of average
 analysts will do you no good.

 That's because, in my view, alpha is best thought of as " differential advantage," or skill
 U U

 that others don't possess. Alpha isn't knowing something, it's knowing something
 others don't know. If everyone else shares a bit of knowledge, it provides no advantage.
 It certainly won't help you beat the market, given that the market price embodies the
 consensus view of investors - who on average know what you know.

 Alpha is entirely personal. It's idiosyncratic, an art form. It's superior insight; some
 people just "get it" better than others. Some of them are mechanistic quants; others are
 entirely intuitive. Hard work is a common thread among the best investors I know, but
 hard work alone is absolutely insufficient to explain their superior performance.

 Alpha is zero for someone with no skill (i.e., a dart thrower). Warren Buffett, on the
 other hand, seems to have lots of alpha - even in a market most people think of as
 efficient. It's possible to have negative alpha if you're wrong more often than not.
 Someone who's always wrong would have lots of negative alpha, but he'd be a great guy
 to know (since you could be right all the time by doing the opposite of what he says).

 Everyone knows it's a cornerstone of investment theory that there's no such thing as
 alpha . . .

 Clearly this underlies the Efficient Market Hypothesis. The market is more right
 than any investor. No investor is better than any other. No one is capable of
 consistently outperforming. Anecdotal evidence of superior performance is
 dismissed by academicians who attribute it to luck or a too-short trial period.

 . . . but there's something of an oxymoron afoot. Even though thousands of people
 expect to make a living from active investment management, much of traditional
 investment thinking is built on the realization that alpha is severely limited (even
 though the practitioners don't state it that way).

 Why do I say that? Most investors claim they can outperform the market - that is, can
 see, assess and understand better than the average investor - because of superior
 intelligence and hard work. Doesn't everyone think he can beat the market? But much of
 what's actually practiced, even by Oaktree, subtly acknowledges that the ability to know
 more - and if you think of it, that's a lot of what alpha really is - is quite limited.

 It's a common assumption that if an investor's portfolios are highly concentrated, they're
 risky. But that assumes he can't see the future. If he could, it would be perfectly safe to
 have a low level of diversification. In fact, if his foresight were perfect, then the safest
 portfolio would hold only one asset, because that's the one he would think of most highly
 (and, since he could see the future, he would of course be right). Thus diversification,
 which is widely practiced even in the "I know" school of investing, represents a tacit
 acknowledgement that there's a lot that investors don't know.

 Investors' strong preference for liquidity is another indicator that this limitation is
 accepted. Even the "I know" investors, who buy on the assumption they're right, insist on
 liquidity - because they know there's a good chance they'll be wrong and need to beat a
 retreat. But the more you can see the future, the less likely you'll be wrong, and the less
 risk there is that exiting could be difficult.

 In reality, then, not just investment theory, but also a great deal of everyday practice, is
 built around the acknowledgement that alpha - skill and foresight - is a scarce
 commodity.

 Risk - It's essential that investors consider risk. In the time since I entered the
 U U

 investment field, return has increasingly come to be evaluated in risk-adjusted terms.
 Everyone knows that if two portfolios return 8% a year for five years, the two managers
 didn't necessarily do an equally good job of investing. If one did it with T-bills and the
 other with emerging market stocks, the first manager almost certainly did a better job -
 since he earned the same return with far less risk. That's real added value, just like
 earning more return with the same or less risk. To know how good a job a manager
 did, then, you have to have a good idea how much risk he took.

 Yet I think risk may be the area where both theory and many aspects of practice are
 furthest from right. The first thing you learn in investment theory, and one of the most
 widely agreed-on assumptions in practice, is that "volatility equals risk." This premise
 underlies a great deal of portfolio theory, asset allocation, portfolio optimization and
 performance assessment. But what are its merits?

 I believe the academicians of the 1950s and '60s were influenced to accept volatility as
 the measure of investment risk by its two outstanding virtues: it is (a) absolute and (b)
 quantifiable. They can tell you precisely what the standard deviation of a stock or a
 portfolio's return was in the past, and thus it only takes a little extrapolation to project
 what it's going to be in the future.

 I will suggest some other ways to think about risk, but (a) they will vary from person to
 person and from situation to situation, and/or (b) they will not be easily quantified. Thus
 they won't permit you to say that one asset or portfolio would be riskier than another
 (other than possibly in a given application). You won't even be able to say how risky an
 asset or portfolio was in the past.

 What is risk? First of all, I don't think risk is synonymous with volatility. And second,
 the indicia of risk vary by asset class.

 At Oaktree, when we think about adding an asset to a portfolio, we ask whether the risk
 entailed is tolerable (i.e., within our charter from our clients) and offset by the likely
 return. And by risk we mean the chance of losing our clients' money.

 In high yield bonds we concentrate on the risk of default and how much principal would
 likely be unrecoverable. In distressed debt we wonder whether the company's assets will
 turn out to be worth less than we think or the reorganization will go against us. In
 convertibles and emerging market equities we worry about the chance a stock will decline
 and the likelihood that our protective efforts will fail to insulate us.

 We do not think about volatility. With our capital in either locked-up funds or long-term
 relationships, we worry only about whether the ultimate result, perhaps years down the
 road, will be positive or negative, and by how much. We think this is what our clients
 pay us to do.

 But we make no claim that this approach to risk is subject to quantification or numerical
 manipulation. Bruce Karsh probably couldn't have quantified the riskiness of Conseco
 bonds at the time we bought them last June. Richard Masson and Matt Barrett probably
 wouldn't have agreed with him, or with each other, on the probability of loss. Any figure
 they settled on probably wouldn't have been in a form that could be equated with risk.
 And even today, a year later and after having sold the bonds, we still can't quantify
 the risk we took. It's a concept, a notion, a worry . . . but not a number.

 This might be the right way to think about risk - it's certainly how we do it - but it
 wouldn't work at all for a "quant." He'd have no way to state our portfolio's risk, or its
 risk-adjusted return, or tell whether our performance was superior or inferior.

 Will an investment lose money? Will a pension fund fail to earn its actuarial assumption?
 Will an endowment be unable to cover its spending rate? Will a retiree have less than he
 needs to live on? Will a manager lose an account? These are the risks - the perils - that
 we think matter.

 Most pension funds have a very long time horizon, and for a university endowment it's
 theoretically infinite. Volatile quarterly returns wouldn't be a meaningful source of risk
 for them as they would be for a retiree scraping by. But once you say a given portfolio is
 risky for one investor but not another, there ceases to be a unique number that measures
 its absolute riskiness. In that case, how can you talk about its risk, or its risk-adjusted
 return?

 Correlation - The final analytical element to be considered when assembling securities
 U U

 into portfolios is their degree of connectedness, or correlation. As discussed above, a
 one-asset portfolio would be optimal for someone who can see the future. The main
 reason for holding more than one asset is diversification. But the principal virtue of
 diversification, protection from catastrophic error, is wiped out if the underlying assets
 will react the same to environmental change and move together.

 Thus it's not enough to be able to estimate return and risk in isolation; we must
 understand correlation. Even if we can estimate the separate potential of two assets, we
 cannot know how a portfolio combining them will behave unless we know how they will
 move relative to each other. Two stocks in the same industry may be highly correlated,
 but two companies whose products compete directly may not (that is, whichever one
 wins, the other is likely to lose).

 Let's say there are two assets with high prospective return and risk. A portfolio consisting
 of the two can have high risk if they are correlated but low risk if they are not. Thus
 adding an uncorrelated, high-risk asset can reduce the overall riskiness of a portfolio.
 This understanding revolutionized investing by enabling risk-averse investors to hold
 high-return, high-risk assets as long as they are uncorrelated with the rest of their
 portfolio. Certainly Oaktree owes much of its very existence to the understanding of how
 assets behave in combination.

 Tracking error, which lately has been of increased interest, refers to a specific type of
 connectedness: that between a portfolio and a benchmark. More and more, clients are
 asking about managers' tracking error in the past and monitoring it after hiring them.

 A client hires managers to play specific roles in its portfolio, and it wants to be sure they
 will do so. In considering whether to include high yield bonds in its portfolio, for
 example, the client may model the performance of the portfolio incorporating the
 Salomon Cash-Pay Index as a proxy for the high yield bond component. Then if the
 client hires a manager, it wants to be sure the manager will track the Salomon Index
 closely (of course while outperforming!)

 Thus clients have reason to want low tracking error. But if you think about it, the two
 principal sources of tracking error are (a) over- and under-weightings of the securities in
 the index and (b) inclusion of off-index securities. So it's obviously possible for tracking
 error to be too low; an index fund would have zero tracking error, but that's not what
 clients hire active managers to create. Thus we have a client who monitors our tracking
 error and complains when it's too low, because they want to see active bets being made.

 * * *

 This last point illustrates what I think should be the role of theory in our industry. In
 short, I think, theory should inform our decisions but not dominate them.
 U U

 If we entirely ignore theory, we can make big mistakes. We can fool ourselves into
 thinking it's possible to know more than everyone else and regularly beat heavily
 populated markets. We can buy securities for their returns but ignore their risk. We can
 buy fifty correlated securities and mistakenly think we've diversified. When I think of the
 impact of being blind to theory, I flash back to 1970 and the frighteningly simplistic
 rationale behind my colleagues' expectation of 12% a year from stocks: if they could
 emulate the historic 10% return with ease through indexing, it should be a snap to add a
 couple of percent with just a little effort.

 But swallowing theory whole can make us turn the process over to a computer and
 miss out on the contribution skillful individuals can make. The image here is of the
 efficient-market-believing finance professor who takes a walk with a student. "Isn't that a
 $10 bill lying on the ground?" asks the student. "No, it can't be a $10 bill," answers the
 professor. "If it were, someone would have picked it up by now." The professor walks
 away, and the student picks it up and has a beer.

 So how do we balance the two? By applying informed common sense. At Chicago, I
 spent a wonderful semester with Professor James Lorie. Students loved his anecdote-
 filled course, which we nicknamed "Lorie's Stories," and its visits from active investors.
 True-believing theorists may have sneered at it, but it was this class that inspired me to
 integrate my practical Wharton foundation and the Chicago theory, rather than stick
 exclusively to either one.

 A year after graduating, I had lunch with Jim Lorie and asked - off the theoretical record
 - how he would manage a portfolio. His simple advice was informed by theory but
 realistic: "I would index the core and manage the hell out of the periphery."

 * * *

 The key turning point in my investment management career came when I concluded that
 hard work and skill would pay off best in inefficient markets. Theory informed that
 decision and prevented me from wasting my time elsewhere, but it took an understanding
 of the limits of the theory to keep me from completely accepting the arguments against
 active management. Theory and practice have to be balanced in this way. Certainly
 neither alone is enough.


Memo: Notes from New York.

Maybe you've already read enough about last week's events, in which case you should
 feel free to discard this memo. There is no moral obligation to keep reading when doing
 so brings pain. Each of us can decide when enough is enough.

 By now most of us know all we need to about Tuesday's events at the World Trade Center
 and the Pentagon. I will not recount the facts relating to these events, but rather the
 thoughts they have left me with.

 I spent Tuesday through Friday in New York - like so many, against my will. I had no
 plans for a memo on this subject. But when I woke up Saturday, at home for the first
 time in a week, thoughts of New York monopolized my mind. My way of dealing with
 them is to turn them into sentences and paragraphs.

 This memo may not include much that is new to you but, as usual, I will attempt to pull
 together my own thoughts and what I've heard and read elsewhere. It won't touch on
 recommendations for investing or predictions for economies and markets. Its contents
 will range from trivial descriptions of New York after the attack to hopefully-meaningful
 observations on the big-picture ramifications that have been seen and that may follow.

 Lastly, I certainly do not wish to write anything that offends. But nerves are frayed, and
 unintended offense might be taken, for which I apologize. I mean only the best, and I
 hope it comes out that way.

 My Role - I was merely a bystander at the events of last week. I was affected
 U U

 emotionally and logistically, but not involved. My father and daughter, both of whom
 live in New York, were safe. I had no friends or colleagues at the World Trade Center.
 As for me, I had arrived at midnight Monday after a dinner in Cleveland. I planned to
 speak to a Pensions East forum on Tuesday morning and then fly to Berlin to participate
 in an Institutional Investor conference.

 The Events - The crashing of planes into the WTC and the Pentagon represented the first
 U U

 large-scale foreign attack on continental United States soil. It was daring, well planned,
 coordinated and startlingly successful. It showed how the fruits of progress - the world's
 great airliners - can be used against us. It showed how, in this age, a handful of men
 from a smallish, amorphous enemy can cause destruction totally disproportionate to their
 number or materiel.

 I was struck by a New York Times article saying these terrorists are not insane. They are
 extremists who follow a dogma that most Muslims do not. They are highly indoctrinated
 and perhaps brainwashed. But they are intelligent, highly trained soldiers who will carry
 out orders to destroy what they believe is their enemy. We count on others to act in their
 own self-interest; this makes them predictable and helps us know how to deal with them.
 It is not there in the case of the terrorists, in that they care little about their own survival.
 This adds greatly to the danger they pose.

 Reaction - I left Oaktree's New York office Tuesday afternoon to collect my daughter
 U U

 and the children of friends in a natural desire to assure safety and feel the sorely-missed
 ability to create order. I walked north through streets that were strangely normal but not
 quite. The tourists were there, with their cameras and maps. There was no smoke and no
 ash. There were a few more people than usual, and almost all were moving in one
 direction: north, away from the WTC. There was no screaming or crying, no running or
 panic, just occasional knots of people gathered around radios.

 Only knowledgeable onlookers would have detected the differences. Few people were
 talking. Eyes didn't meet - which is not unusual in New York. There clearly were no
 smiles. The words that came to mind were "subdued," "somber" and "enervated," and
 they stayed with me all week. Stress and tension were everywhere.

 Some things were very different, and some that were the same felt different. The absence
 of airliners overhead was obvious, and the effect was dramatic when fighter jets replaced
 them. Sirens were heard more clearly in the absence of competing noise, and they
 seemed more ominous - as was the case in Los Angeles during the riots and earthquakes.

 Pedestrian and vehicular traffic was light the first night, and it grew only gradually.
 Grocery stores were crowded; sidewalk restaurants were populated; it was clear life
 would go on.

 Each of us found his or her individual limit on how much we wanted to read, watch and
 talk about these events. At the same time, however, it seemed inappropriate to talk about
 or do anything else. In my limited sample, the kids found it easier to move on to other
 topics - and I was so glad to see that their lives, albeit probably changed forever, would
 rebound.

 Communication - My cell phone and Blackberry wireless e-mail device were absolutely
 U U

 essential. I was again reminded to ask "How did we ever get along without these things?"
 It was very hard to make phone calls on Tuesday, but that, too, got a little better each day.
 My Blackberry always worked and made it possible for me to keep in contact with my
 Oaktree colleagues.

 Spam e-mail was absent that first day, but it also came back. Resumes, start-up business
 proposals and offerings of money management firms for sale seemed incredibly
 inappropriate on the one hand, but I guess they, too, are part of the return to normalcy.

 Retaliation - Armed response was, of course, one of the first issues to arise after the
 U U

 crashes. The President promised it Tuesday evening, and it is on the minds of us all. But
 no one should underestimate the challenges involved. The terrorists are amorphous, as I
 said, and pervasive. They exist everywhere but have no headquarters. They are dedicated
 but wear no uniform and fly no flag. They will not be easy to find or deal with. In the
 past we believed in the invincibility of the U.S., and thus in our ability to root out evil and
 prevail. There is still positive evidence on this subject, but also evidence to the contrary.

 The Gulf War was one of our swiftest and most decisive triumphs. We were also able to
 calm the hostilities in the Balkans. On the other hand, Vietnam showed how hard it is to
 deal with a guerilla enemy who melts into the scenery, and last week's events strongly call
 into question the efficacy of our intelligence effort.

 The nations of the world - even most of those in Middle East - have been quick to
 express horror and swear their support of the U.S. How many mean it, and how many
 have done it falsely to avoid our wrath? I certainly hope it's the former.

 The swiftness and forcefulness of our response will depend to a great deal on how willing
 we are to diverge from some American ideals, and thus will require some difficult
 decisions. How sure will we have to be before we take action? Will we accept the risk of
 losing world support if we make mistakes? Are we willing to kill non-combatants? Are
 we willing to bear casualties among our own servicemen and women?

 Centuries of immunity from attack on our soil, and decades of relative safety in a world in
 turmoil, have allowed Americans to enjoy the luxuries of moral certitude, personal
 freedom and safety. With our apparent wall of invulnerability penetrated, we will have to
 debate the extent to which these luxuries will be dispensed with.

 Our Tactics - There is bound to be review and debate regarding the tactics we will
 U U

 employ in pursuit of safety and justice. In the recent past, there has been a rise in the
 position I paraphrase as "we will do no evil, even in the interest of doing good." Thus it
 was decided that the CIA would not perform assassinations or employ "intelligence
 assets" with records of crimes or human rights violations.

 These principled stances may come to be viewed as luxuries we can no longer afford.
 When prosecutors obtain cooperating testimony, it is usually from criminals - because
 that's who the targets of prosecution associate with, and that's who can be turned against
 them. It is now clear that we need intelligence regarding upcoming terrorist operations,
 and that intelligence must come from inside terrorist cells. People we might not wish to
 associate with - perhaps only terrorists themselves - can best gain that access. They may
 be the ones most able to penetrate the obstacles posed by language and the close-knit
 nature of the cells. Can we afford not to employ them?

 Civil Liberties and Scapegoating - These events and their aftermath may make us
 U U

 conclude that full civil liberties and full domestic security may be mutually exclusive.

 Over the last eight years, Mayor Giuliani cut New York's murder rate by two-thirds using
 tactics that eroded civil liberties in high-crime areas. People were stopped and frisked on
 the street, and there were roving squads of undercover policemen - including those who
 mistakenly killed Amadou Diallo. Giuliani was assailed as a fascist, especially by the
 high-minded New York Times. But I detected two common threads last week: "his
 emergency preparations were appropriate, not excessive," and "he's the kind of mayor
 we'll need in the years ahead."

 Depending on how far and in what ways the terrorist campaign spreads, we might begin
 to see armed personnel where people gather. And they might need to be able to search
 those they suspect. We may see surveillance cameras, computer facial and fingerprint
 recognition and the use of profiling. Internet and telephone privacy may be abridged.
 Travel will be less convenient, and our borders may be made less porous. These subjects
 are likely to be hotly debated, but the debate is certain to be conducted from a new
 perspective. And I think the answers are likely to be different from what they would
 have been a week ago.

 One of my reflexes on Tuesday was to think about a recent movie, "The Siege." In it, a
 New York police detective tries to cope with a Muslim reign of terror in New York. At
 the same time, members of an outraged populace pursue vigilante justice against Middle
 Easterners, and the President sends in the army, led by an all-business general. He
 declares martial law, suspends civil liberties and rounds up New Yorkers based on
 ethnicity. It's not a great movie, but it is as relevant as "Wag the Dog" was to Bill
 Clinton's impeachment-eve bombing raids. You'll be glad to know it ends with the threat
 defused and American ideals preserved.

 There will be - already has been - violence against Americans of Middle Eastern origin.
 But know this: People say that if we let stocks fall, if we don't rebuild the Towers, or
 if we don't return to normalcy, then our enemies will have won. All of this is true,
 but if the events of the week are able to turn Americans against Americans and
 erode the values that have made this country great, they also will have won.

 Hysteria and Miscommunication - I witnessed, first-hand, the ability of emotion and
 U U

 fragmentary information to combine for error. On Thursday afternoon, I heard that three
 or four men in pilots' uniforms had been stopped trying to board planes. By early evening
 it had grown to seven. But on Friday it turned out to have been one.

 I actually listened as the existence of a recent government report on terrorism was
 interwoven with thoughts that it might be unsafe for President Bush to visit New York, as
 well as a few other elements, to support a warning that chemical or biological weapons
 would be unleashed on Friday. Hysteria is natural in crises, but hopefully it will subside
 - while hopefully vigilance will remain.

 Heroism - As Dickens suggested, the worst of times can bring out the best. I am
 U U

 incredibly moved by the accounts of people in careers based on bearing risk to help
 others, and of everyday people who rose to great heights.

 Friday's Wall Street Journal carried an incredible, eloquent tribute to the bravery of New
 York's firemen. It said "In the academy, recruits learn that a firefighter performs but
 one act of bravery in his career, and that's when he takes the oath of office.
 Everything after that, it is said, is simply in the line of duty." I cannot read this
 without being moved profoundly.

 Last week proved that America is rich in heroes: The man who carried a woman he didn't
 know down fifty flights of WTC stairs. The people who drove hundreds of miles to offer
 their services in the rescue and cleanup effort. And the ultimate heroes, the passengers
 who crashed United flight 93 in Pennsylvania rather than let it be used as another terrible
 bomb. Who among us could crash the plane we're on to save hundreds or thousands of
 strangers?

 Loss - As I wrote last week, Oaktree was fortunate in having no losses. Teresa
 U U

 O'Hagan's husband and his four brothers are New York firemen; some were missing or
 incommunicado for periods of time, but all turned up safe. I lost it when I spoke with her
 and felt the emotion flowing through both of us. Noreen Keegan and Zenobia Walji have
 husbands who are policemen, and they, too, are fine. It took a while longer, but Eric
 Livingstone's girlfriend and Nilsa Veras's mother also proved to be safe.

 Most of us, however, knew someone who was not as lucky, and that brings it home. For
 me it was David Alger, head of Fred Alger Management Inc., with whom I shared a
 podium in March. I have read only good things about him.

 These events clearly prove that "random violence" does not mean "spread evenly." I am
 struck by the incredible pockets of loss. Some WTC tenant firms had no losses, but
 Cantor Fitzgerald and Fred Alger lost huge percentages of their employees. More than
 300 New York firemen are missing and presumed dead, including entire fire companies.

 Oaktree's Kevin Clayton lives in an area from which many people commute to lower
 Manhattan. Thus ten people are missing from his parish, and well more than 100 from
 the nexus of towns that includes his. The loss of thousands of people in a few minutes -
 and the localized, concentrated losses - are things I hope never to live through again.

 The Results - They say every cloud has a silver lining, but it's hard to see the good in this
 U U

 one. The tales of heroism and sacrifice have been wonderful, but I'd rather not have had
 occasion to read them.

 At the same time, and equally incredibly, these events have brought the worst of
 Americans out from under their rocks. I am sickened to hear of the copycat bomb scares,
 phone calls designed to pry the social security numbers of the missing from their grieving
 families, and phony contribution scams.

 The loss of life has been massive. The financial cost - to rebuild New York and the
 Pentagon, to the airlines, for stepped-up security, and for business lost - will be
 enormous.

 The wonderful feeling that the U.S. was insulated and impregnable has been breached.
 The vulnerability to attack of our everyday life has been made clear. Life here may never
 seem as carefree. Last week I told my son Andrew that, incredibly, the Berlin conference
 was still going on as usual. He said "What's so incredible? Each time there's been a
 bombing somewhere in the world, life here has gone on without skipping a beat." In
 many ways, we now have been dragged into a reality that is commonplace throughout the
 world - which may well have been one of the terrorists' objectives.

 Last week's events proved that money, position and technology are not the most powerful
 or important things in our lives. The cornerstones of our lives were shown to be
 family, faith and principle, friends and colleagues we know we can count on, and the
 American spirit. These are the things we have to be thankful for . . . maybe now, we
 realize, more than ever.


Memo: What Lies Ahead?.

Writing my client memos gives me great satisfaction. I appreciate the opportunities to
 share my views with you as well as your receptivity to them. Setting down my "Notes
 from New York" did me a lot of good as my way of dealing with post-attack issues
 outside the investment arena.

 I must admit that I haven't been looking forward to writing a memo about the economic
 and investment implications of the attacks. Many of my views are negative, and I'm no
 economist. But I want to give you the benefit of my thinking, such as it is.

 Looking to the Future - All of economics, business and investing entails dealing with
 U U

 the future. Economists predict future conditions. Businesspeople build and manage
 organizations so as to profit in the coming environment. And, of course, investors try to
 figure out what things will come to be worth in the years ahead and act accordingly.
 Other professions deal more with the past (e.g., accountants and historians) or the present
 (doctors and lawyers), but it is our job to cope with the future.

 That's what makes investing interesting, challenging and occasionally lucrative. If it
 didn't require us to reach conclusions about the future, or if the future wasn't uncertain,
 then everyone's returns would be the same - but not very high. We achieve high returns
 on occasion because we deal with an uncertain future, and it's because the future is
 U U U U

 uncertain that superior investors can get an edge.

 The process of investing consists entirely of divining the future - in terms of profits
 and values - and translating that future into prices that should be paid today.
 Obviously, doing so requires a view of what the world will look like tomorrow and how
 businesses and their products will fare in that world.

 We each make thousands of judgments a day based on our understanding of what's
 normal. We turn the right faucet for a drink because that's where the cold water always
 has been. We tend to buy another car - or another tube of toothpaste - of the same brand
 because we were happy with the last one. We cross the street on a green light because we
 trust on-coming drivers to stop on red.

 We must make assumptions like these, even though we know they won't hold true all the
 time. If we had to start from scratch every time we faced a decision, the result would be
 paralysis. Thus we start by assuming that the things that worked in the past are likely to
 work in the future, but we also make allowances for the possibility that they won't.

 We do the same in our roles as investors. We expect well-managed companies with good
 products to make money and be valued accordingly. We assume companies that have the
 money will service their bonds. We count on the economy to recover from slowdowns
 and grow over time.

 So most of our actions depend on extrapolation. Certainly in investing, we rely on
 forecasts that assume the future will look a lot like the past. And most of the time they're
 right. My main quibbles with forecasters are two:

 1. While most forecasts call for a future that's a lot like the past, the truly valuable
 forecasts are those that call for radical change. Forecasters rarely make such
 forecasts, however, and those who do are rarely right.

 2. Most forecasters present their work as deserving more credence than it does. In
 short, they rarely say, "Here's my forecast, and if I were you, I'd take it with a
 grain of salt."

 Even today, forecasters are out there with predictions for the economy and the market that
 are based primarily on history. And yet it seems to me that the future may be less likely
 to look like the past than it has until now, and that things we've never even considered
 before have a chance of happening.

 Immediately after the attacks, there began to appear articles citing how long it has taken
 the market to recover after past crises. But who's to say those precedents are at all
 relevant? For example, I read that the market sagged for five months after Iraq's invasion
 of Kuwait but made up all of that ground, and then some, soon thereafter. But that
 experience had a very favorable outcome. We all want this one to be as good and as
 quick, but are we willing to bet that it will?

 We all want a feeling of assurance. We want to live in a world where the future seems
 knowable and decisions that extrapolate normalcy can be depended on. We want to
 believe life in this country will return to the carefree days pre-September 11. We want to
 believe our leaders will be able to keep the ship upright and manage their way out of
 problems. So I think we're eager to embrace predictions that these things will hold true.
 But is it prudent today in making decisions regarding the future to assume a return
 to the status quo?

 The New Future - It seems to me that today we know even less about the future than we
 U U

 usually do, and that's never a lot.

 1. About terrorism. How much of what we have to worry about stems from Osama
 bin Laden and al Qaeda, and how much relates to other groups? How much of bin
 Laden's plans and resources went into the September 11 attacks, and how much
 remains on tap? Is bin Laden a diabolical genius against whom we're powerless,
 or a paper tiger who got lucky? Are there additional shoes left to drop? Will
 there be a high-profile attack once a year? Or will Middle East-style violence

 intrude into our regular existence? Are chemical and biological weapons a real
 threat?

 2. About our response. Can we find bin Laden? Can we capture him and his
 henchmen? Will our military actions be successful, and can they be undertaken
 without extensive collateral damage? Can we pursue justice without alienating
 people and nations? Will terrorists move to punish our actions? Will their doing
 so shake our resolve, or that of our allies?

 3. About the economy. How deep a recession are we in for? How long will it last?
 What will prompt a recovery, and what shape will it take? Will industries like
 airlines and hotels be permanently depressed, or will they return to pre-9/11
 normalcy? When will liquidity and a desire to buy things return? Can we rely on
 normal cyclical patterns in these things? Will these elements be set back again if
 there is further terrorism?

 Who among us can say he knows the answers to these questions? And who can say
 the future is foreseeable without those answers?

 Many of these questions take us into uncharted territory where no one can say what will
 happen. The possible answers include some that could profoundly affect the economy
 and the markets, and they worry me. Some of the greatest dilemmas in investing
 surround highly unlikely events with highly negative implications. It's hard to know
 what to do about them, but we should at least be aware of their existence.

 We have no alternative to assuming that the future will look mostly like the past, but we
 also must allow for the fact that we face a range of possible futures today that is wider
 than usual. In other words, I feel we must allow for greater-than-normal uncertainty.

 The Role of Confidence - The basic building block underlying all economic activity is
 U U

 the individual spending unit, be it a business or a household. Each of these units builds
 into its decisions expectations regarding the future. And those expectations are shaped to
 a great extent by the data, opinions and emotions that add up to confidence. Sometimes I
 think in the economy, confidence is all there is.

 When people are confident, they extrapolate prosperity and borrow and buy. They
 assume an upward-sloping future and want to jump on board. They worry that if they
 don't buy something today, it'll cost them more tomorrow. That is, they are concerned
 about the cost of inaction.

 When their confidence fades, they worry about losing jobs and defer purchases. They
 may prefer to build cash or pay down debt. They're willing to wait before buying, and
 they assume there'll be another chance to buy cheaper. In other words, they figure that if
 they don't act, they won't miss out on much. Opportunity costs just don't seem that
 important.

 Who would say that confidence wasn't shaken by the events of September 11? Words we
 would have applied to our domestic security before, like insulated, invulnerable and
 impregnable, now seem to be out the window. Who doesn't feel at least a little less safe
 than a month ago? Thus most people are less full of the positive feelings that are required
 for a purchasing or investing decision, and on average they may "hunker down."

 Many economic units have concluded that in this more uncertain world, greater cash
 reserves are in order - for rational as well as emotional reasons. Individuals fear that jobs
 will be lost, hiring will be slow, and bonuses and raises will be less generous - and they
 know they've saved too little and tapped their home equity to keep spending. Home and
 car purchases will be deferred. Business investment will be slow, especially given that
 capacity utilization was low and falling even prior to September 11. Each of these
 decisions will take away a potential source of growth from the economy and contribute to
 a slowdown. That's what makes for the down-leg of the economic cycle (and we believe
 one has been well under way for several months).

 And when every expenditure that can be delayed has been delayed, the decline will slow
 and then stop. Then one person will conclude it's not going to get any worse, or prices
 any lower. One potential buyer will come off the sidelines and place an order; one
 worker will be hired to fill that order; and one manufacturer will buy a new machine in
 anticipation of increased business. And one person will decide to buy a share in a
 business, or even try to start one. And that's what gets the up-leg going.

 It's all based on the ebb and flow of psychology. In my opinion, the key question is "How
 long will it take to restore confidence?" I don't claim to have the answer, but I think it
 may be a while.

 Stimulative Actions - The federal government has acted boldly to combat economic
 U U

 weakness, as it has been doing all year. All economic trends start at the margin, and that's
 where the government's actions can help. They can keep things from getting as bad as
 they otherwise would have gotten - but they cannot call the tune.

 Immediately providing a record amount of liquidity to the financial system prevented
 some problems that otherwise would have arisen given the damage to our infrastructure.
 Difficulties in the movement of funds and settlement of securities transactions were
 avoided, enabling the system to work and Americans to maintain faith in it. Prompt
 monetary action worked again to avert a potential crisis, as it did in 1987 and 1998.

 Fiscal policy, which relates to taxing and spending, also will have an impact.
 Government spending is stimulative, in that it uses money to purchase goods or to pay
 people who may turn around and spend it. Deficits put more money into the economy
 than they take out in taxes. (This is unlike the surpluses we thought we were heading for,
 which are restrictive because the government takes out more than it puts back.) In the
 weeks since the terrorist attacks, the administration has announced programs sufficient to
 consume the surplus that had been projected for the current fiscal year. These include
 $40 billion in emergency funds, $15 billion in subsidies and loans for the airlines, and

 $60-$75 billion for "economic revival." In the short run, as CSFB says, this will "create a
 buffer to the slowdown in activity." (The long-term effects may be less positive, in that
 deficits and the Treasury borrowing required to support them can lead to inflation, higher
 interest rates and crowding out of non-government borrowers).

 Interest rate reductions also can help ease the contraction, and we may see more of them.
 They will work at the margin, but I don't expect them to give the economy much of a
 boost in the short run. One of the most vivid phrases in the business vocabulary is
 "pushing on a string," and that's what rate reductions can amount to in a hunkered-down
 world. Will low interest rates get people to buy homes and cars if they've lost their
 willingness to spend? Will they work with people who realize they have inadequate
 savings and are overly indebted? Will they cause businesses to invest in expansion if
 they already have capacity sitting idle?

 No one knows the answers to these questions, but they should not be assumed to be
 overwhelmingly positive. A discouraging analogy can be seen in Japan's decade-long
 doldrums. The government has pushed interest rates nearly to zero and keeps pumping
 money into the system. But every time the cautious Japanese citizen gets a few yen he
 puts it in the bank, and economic growth fails to revive. Hopefully, a difference may lie
 in Americans' higher propensity to spend.

 So in the end, I feel it all goes back to confidence. Consumer and business spending will
 pick up at some point, and the government can encourage it, but it can't make it happen.

 Investor Reaction - On September 17, after a four-day hiatus, the nation's financial
 U U

 markets reopened, with the Dow falling 685 points, or 7%. When I heard about that first
 day's loss, my reaction was immediate: "That's not so bad - just a quarter of the
 percentage decline in the crash of 1987." And after declining further in that first week of
 trading, stocks have recovered most of their losses.

 Clearly, the interest rate cuts are helping stock prices. They make investors feel the Fed
 is doing something to improve the outlook. They contribute to economic activity at the
 margin. By reducing floating-rate mortgage payments they leave people with more
 spending money. And by lowering fixed income returns they reduce the competition that
 comes from cash and bonds, thus making stocks more attractive in relative terms.

 But no one knows what the economic future will look like. No one knows what corporate
 earnings will be in 2001 or 2002, although they appear likely to decline. In addition,
 geopolitical uncertainties dot the horizon. Thus with the Dow off less than 6% from its
 September 10 pre-attack close, I wonder whether investors weren't shaken enough, or
 whether complacency has returned too quickly.

 The Dow has risen 10% since the start of the recovery on September 24, including 200+
 points this week. The stock market seems to be saying "Well, I'm glad that's over."
 Frankly, I worry about attitudes like those displayed in an article in yesterday's Wall
 Street Journal:

 Stock Investors Show a "Comfort" Level; Rate Cut Spurs 113.76-Point Rise

 . . . the Fed said the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks "have significantly heightened"
 uncertainty in an already weak economy. Yet despite the Fed's concern, signs are
 spreading that some professional investors are gradually putting money back into
 stocks. "The market has reached a level that makes people feel a lot more
 comfortable that we have seen the worst of what could happen," . . .

 I can't tell you how much I hope we've seen the worst, both in terms of world events
 and in the markets. But I am not willing to bet heavily on that assumption. And if I'm
 supposed to be more afraid when others are less afraid, articles like this one tell me there's
 plenty to worry about.

 I always stress that investments must leave a substantial margin for error and allow for
 the possibility that negatives will arise. The terrorist attacks, while certainly not
 imaginable, show the importance of allowing for adverse surprises. Only when asset
 prices are clearly at irrationally low levels can this caution be ignored. In my view, with
 investors' sangfroid having bounced back so strongly, most stocks aren't at such levels.

 So What Do We Do Now? - We could assume that the combination of further
 U U

 weakening of the already-weak economy plus continued terrorism will make for a very
 difficult environment. If we then based our investment process on that assumption, we
 would hold cash and make very few commitments. I call this "single scenario investing."
 The problem, obviously, is that arranging our portfolio so that it will succeed under a
 scenario as negative as that means setting it up to fail under most others. We do not
 believe in basing our actions on macro-forecasts, as you know, and we certainly don't
 think we could ever be that right.

 Thus Oaktree will continue to invest under the assumption that tomorrow will look a lot
 like yesterday - an assumption that to date has always proved correct.

 At the same time, we will continue to insist on an investment process that anticipates
 things not always going as planned, and on selections that can succeed under a wide
 variety of scenarios. As long-term clients know, this part of the story never changes. In
 the current environment, we will allow a very substantial margin for error.

 We will continue to work only in inefficient markets, because we feel it's there that low
 risk needn't mean low returns, and upside potential can coexist with downside protection.

 And we will continue to strive for healthy returns in good markets and superior returns in
 bad markets. We do not promise to beat the markets when they do well, but we also don't
 think that's an essential part of excellence in investing.

 Will I Ever Drop My Cautionary Stance? - On September 24 the Los Angeles
 U U

 Business Journal printed excerpts from an interview with me (and a pretty accurate one

 overall) under the title "A Bear's Eye View." Because I wasn't crazy about that title, I
 was glad soon thereafter to receive the following e-mail from my partner Steve Kaplan:

 I have never viewed you as, nor do I believe you are, a pessimist. To the contrary,
 I think you have an optimistic view when it comes to things you believe you can
 control. . . . Your caution revolves around the uncontrollable, for which you
 recognize that a lot of the judgments of the so-called experts are in large part pure
 guesswork.

 I greatly appreciate Steve's comments, and I think - and hope - he got it right. I have no
 interest in being a pessimist or a bear, and I don't like to think of myself that way. I just
 may be more impressed by the unknowability of the future than most people. When I
 reflect on all of the mottoes I use, it seems half of them relate to how little we can know
 about what lies ahead.

 Am I right or wrong in being this cautious? No one can say. Does my mindset, and
 Oaktree's resultant approach to investing, cost us profits in good years? Probably. Are
 we well prepared for bad times and untoward developments, and are we happy with that?
 Absolutely. If we insist on a degree of defensiveness that turns out to be excessive,
 the worst consequence should be that your profits will be a little lower than they
 otherwise might have been. I don't think that's the worst thing in the world. And in
 the end, I think the skill, experience and discipline of Oaktree's people will continue to
 make up for its lower risk profile and keep our long-term returns more than competitive.

 The longer I'm in this business, the less I believe in investor agility. Most people seem
 stuck in positions as bulls, bears or something in between. Most are always aggressive or
 always defensive. Most either always feel they can see the future or never feel they can
 see the future. Most always prefer value or always prefer growth. Few people's psyches
 are flexible enough to allow them to switch from one way of thinking to another, even if
 they theoretically possessed the needed perspicacity. Rather, most people have a largely
 fixed style and point of view, and the most they can hope for is skill in implementing it -
 and I don't exempt Oaktree and myself from that observation.

 But that's not so bad. It's my conclusion that if you wait at a bus stop long enough, you're
 sure to catch your bus, while if you keep wandering all over the bus route, you may miss
 them all. So Oaktree will adhere steadfastly to its defensive, risk-conscious
 philosophy and try to implement it with skill and discipline. We think that's the key
 to successful long-term investing - especially in today's uncertain environment.


Memo: You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare.

Those who have been readers of my memos for any meaningful period of time know
 there are a few things I dismiss and a few I believe in thoroughly. The former include
 economic forecasts, which I think don't add value, and the list of the latter starts with
 cycles and the need to prepare for them.

 "Hey," you might say, "that's contradictory. The best way to prepare for cycles is to
 predict them, and you just said it can't be done." That's absolutely true, but in my opinion
 by no means debilitating. All of investing consists of dealing with the future, as I've
 written before, and the future is something we can't know much about. But the limits on
 our foreknowledge needn't doom us to failure as long as we acknowledge them and act
 accordingly.

 In my opinion, the key to dealing with the future lies in knowing where you are, even if
 you can't know precisely where you're going. Knowing where you are in a cycle and
 what that implies for the future is very different from predicting the timing, extent
 and shape of the next cyclical move. And so we'd better understand all we can about
 cycles and their behavior.

 Cycles in General
 U

 I think several things about cycles are worth bearing in mind:

 Cycles are inevitable . Every once in a while, an up-or down-leg goes on for a long
 U U

 time and/or to a great extreme and people start to say "this time it's different." They
 cite the changes in geopolitics, institutions, technology or behavior that have rendered
 the "old rules" obsolete. They make investment decisions that extrapolate the recent
 trend. And then it turns out that the old rules do still apply, and the cycle resumes. In
 the end, trees don't grow to the sky, and few things go to zero. Rather, most
 phenomena turn out to be cyclical.

 Cycles' clout is heightened by the inability of investors to remember the past . As
 U U

 John Kenneth Galbraith says, "extreme brevity of the financial memory" keeps market
 participants from recognizing the recurring nature of these patterns, and thus their
 inevitability:

 . . . when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again, sometimes in
 only a few years, they are hailed by a new, often youthful, and always supremely
 self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative discovery in the financial and

 For the title of this memo I've borrowed the tagline from Mass Mutual's advertising campaign.

 larger economic world. There can be few fields of human endeavor in which
 history counts for so little as in the world of finance. Past experience, to the
 extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those
 who do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.

 Cycles are self-correcting , and their reversal is not necessarily dependent on
 U U

 exogenous events. The reason they reverse (rather than going on forever) is that
 trends create the reasons for their own reversal. Thus I like to say success carries
 within itself the seeds of failure, and failure the seeds of success.

 Seen through the lens of human perception, cycles are often viewed as less
 U

 symmetrical than they are . Negative price fluctuations are called "volatility," while
 U

 positive price fluctuations are called "profit." Collapsing markets are called "selling
 panics," while surges receive more benign descriptions (but I think they may best be
 seen as "buying panics"; see tech stocks in 1999, for example). Commentators talk
 about "investor capitulation" at the bottom of market cycles, while I also see
 capitulation at tops, when previously-prudent investors throw in the towel and buy.

 I have views on how these general observations and others apply to specific kinds of
 cycles, which I will set forth below.

 The Economic Cycle
 U

 Few things are the subject of more study than the economy. There's a whole profession
 built around doing so. Academics try to understand the economy, and professionals try to
 predict its course. Personally, I'd stick to the former. I think we can gain a good grasp of
 how the economy works, but I do not think we can predict its fluctuations.

 I have written ad nauseam on this subject, but I will repeat a few of the observations I
 consider relevant:

 There are hundreds, or more likely thousands, of people out there trying to predict the
 movements of the economy, but no one has a record much better than anyone else.
 Certainly no one who was consistently capable of accurately predicting the economy's
 movements would be among those distributing their forecasts gratis.

 The markets already incorporate the views of the consensus of economists, and thus
 holding a consensus view can't help you make above-average returns (even if it's
 right).

 Non-consensus views can make money for you, but to do so they must be right.
 Because the consensus reflects the efforts of a large number of intelligent and
 informed people, however, it's usually the closest we can get to right. In other words,
 I doubt there's anyone out there with non-consensus views that are right routinely.

 Most of the time, the consensus forecast extrapolates current observations. Most
 predictions for growth, inflation and interest rates bear a strong resemblance to the
 levels prevailing at the time they're made. Thus they're close to right when nothing
 changes radically, which is the case most of the time, but no prediction can be
 counted on to foretell the important sea changes. And it's in predicting radical
 changes that extraordinary profit potential exists. In other words, it's the surprises
 U U

 that have profound market impact (and thus profound profit potential), but
 there's a good reason why they're called surprises: it's hard to see them coming!

 Each time there's a radical change, there's an economist who predicted it, and that
 person gets to enjoy his fifteen minutes of fame. Usually, however, he wasn't right
 because of a superior ability to see the future, but rather because he tends to hold
 extreme positions (or perhaps he's a dart thrower) and this time the phenomenon went
 his way. Rarely if ever is that economist right twice in a row.

 So forecasts are unlikely to help us foresee the movements of the economic cycle.
 Nevertheless, we must be aware that it exists and repeats. The greatest mistakes with
 regard to the economic cycle result from a willingness to believe that it will not recur.
 But it always does - and those gullible enough to believe it won't tend to lose money.

 When we marketed our first distressed debt fund in 1988, most of the resistance came
 from people who said, "maybe there won't be a recession, and thus nothing for you to
 buy." Of course, we were deep into a recession within two years, and our 1988-92
 distressed debt funds found lots to buy and produced excellent returns.

 Eminent observers concluded again in the 1990s that the cycle had been eliminated and
 there would be no recession. In 1996, the Wall Street Journal wrote:

 From boardrooms to living rooms and from government offices to trading floors, a
 new consensus is emerging: The big, bad business cycle has been tamed.

 Top business leaders were quoted as saying "There is no natural law that says we have to
 have a recession" and "I don't see what could happen to make a cyclical downturn."
 (These quotes are reminiscent of - and look no less silly than - some of my favorites
 from 1928: "There will be no interruption of our present prosperity" and "I cannot help
 but raise a dissenting voice to the statements that . . . prosperity in this country must
 necessarily diminish and recede in the future.")

 Those quoted in 1996 might insist they weren't saying there would never be another
 recession, but rather that the tendency toward cyclical fluctuation had been dampened and
 there wouldn't be a recession soon. And they might say they were right in 1996, because
 there wasn't one until 2001. If managers had feared a recession in 1996, they might have
 pulled in their horns and missed some of the profits of the late 1990s. But they also might
 have avoided over-expanding and participating fully in the recession of 2001.

 The important thing is to recognize that cycles reverse, and to allow for it. I described in
 my last memo, "What Lies Ahead?," the manner in which a recession continues until, at
 the margin, a few participants stop cutting back and decide instead to act in anticipation
 of better times. I believe this process, and the reverse process that eventually causes
 growth to stall out, will go on forever. No one knows when the turn will occur, or how
 far the correcting leg will go, but the odds are against anyone who says, "the business
 cycle is dead."

 How can non-forecasters like Oaktree best cope with the ups and downs of the economic
 cycle? I think the answer lies in knowing where we are and leaning against the wind. For
 example, when the economy has fallen substantially, observers are depressed, capacity
 expansion has ceased and there begin to be signs of recovery, we are willing to invest in
 companies in cyclical industries. When growth is strong, capacity is being brought on
 stream to keep up with soaring demand and the market forgets these are cyclical
 companies whose peak earnings deserve trough valuations, we trim our holdings
 aggressively. We certainly might do so too early, but that beats the heck out of doing it
 too late.

 The Credit Cycle
 U

 The longer I'm involved in investing, the more impressed I am by the power of the
 credit cycle. It takes only a small fluctuation in the economy to produce a large
 fluctuation in the availability of credit, with great impact on asset prices and back
 on the economy itself.

 The process is simple:

 The economy moves into a period of prosperity.
 Providers of capital thrive, increasing their capital base.
 Because bad news is scarce, the risks entailed in lending and investing seem to have
 shrunk.
 Risk averseness disappears.
 Financial institutions move to expand their businesses - that is, to provide more
 capital.
 They compete for market share by lowering demanded returns (e.g., cutting interest
 rates), lowering credit standards, providing more capital for a given transaction, and
 easing covenants.

 At the extreme, providers of capital finance borrowers and projects that aren't worthy of
 being financed. As The Economist said earlier this year, "the worst loans are made at the
 best of times." This leads to capital destruction - that is, to investment of capital in
 projects where the cost of capital exceeds the return on capital, and eventually to cases
 U U

 where there is no return of capital.
 U U

 When this point is reached, the up-leg described above is reversed.

 Losses cause lenders to become discouraged and shy away.
 Risk averseness rises, and along with it, interest rates, credit restrictions and covenant
 requirements.
 Less capital is made available - and at the trough of the cycle, only to the most
 qualified of borrowers.
 Companies become starved for capital. Borrowers are unable to roll over their debts,
 leading to defaults and bankruptcies.
 This process contributes to and reinforces the economic contraction.

 Of course, at the extreme the process is ready to be reversed again. Because the
 competition to make loans or investments is low, high returns can be demanded along
 with high creditworthiness. Contrarians who commit capital at this point have a shot at
 high returns, and those tempting potential returns begin to draw in capital. In this way, a
 recovery begins to be fueled.

 I stated earlier that cycles are self-correcting. The credit cycle corrects itself through the
 processes described above, and it represents one of the factors driving the fluctuations of
 the economic cycle. Prosperity brings expanded lending, which leads to unwise
 lending, which produces large losses, which makes lenders stop lending, which ends
 prosperity, and on and on.

 In "Genius Isn't Enough" on the subject of Long-Term Capital Management, I wrote
 "Look around the next time there's a crisis; you'll probably find a lender."
 Overpermissive providers of capital frequently aid and abet financial bubbles.
 There have been numerous recent examples where loose credit contributed to booms that
 were followed by famous collapses: real estate in 1989-92; emerging markets in 1994-98;
 Long-Term Capital in 1998; the movie exhibition industry in 1999-2000; venture capital
 funds and telecommunications companies in 2000-01. In each case, lenders and investors
 provided too much cheap money and the result was over-expansion and dramatic losses.
 In "Fields of Dreams" Kevin Costner was told, "if you build it, they will come." In the
 financial world, if you offer cheap money, they will borrow, buy and build - often
 without discipline, and with very negative consequences.

 The credit cycle contributed tremendously to the tech bubble. Money from venture
 capital funds caused far too many companies to be created, often with little in terms of
 business justification or profit prospects. Wild demand for IPOs caused their hot stocks
 to rise meteorically, enabling venture funds to report triple-digit returns and attract still
 more capital requiring speedy deployment. The generosity of the capital markets let
 companies sign on for huge capital projects that were only partially financed, secure in
 the knowledge that more financing would be available later, at higher p/e's and lower
 interest rates as the projects were further along. This ease caused far more capacity to be
 built than was needed, a lot of which is sitting idle. Much of the investment that went
 into it may never be recovered. Once again, easy money has led to capital destruction.

 In making investments, it has become my habit to worry less about the economic
 future - which I'm sure I can't know much about - than I do about the
 supply/demand picture relating to capital. Being positioned to make investments in
 an uncrowded arena conveys vast advantages. Participating in a field that
 everyone's throwing money at is a formula for disaster.

 We have lived through a long period in which cash acted like ballast, retarding your
 progress. Now I think we're going into an environment where cash will be king. If
 you went to a leading venture capital fund in 1999 and said, "I'd like to invest $10 million
 with you," they'd say, "Lots of people want to give us their cash. What else can you
 offer? Do you have contacts? Strategic insights?" I think the answer today would be
 different.

 One of the critical elements in business or investment success is staying power. I often
 speak of the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on
 average. Companies have to be able to get through the tough times, and cash is one of the
 things that can make the difference. Thus all of the investments we're making today
 assume we'll be going into the difficult part of the credit cycle, and we're looking for
 companies that will be able to stay the course.

 The Corporate Life Cycle
 U

 As indicated above, business firms have to live through ups and downs. They're organic
 entities, and they have life cycles of their own.

 Most companies are born in an entrepreneurial mode, starting with dreams, limited capital
 and the need to be frugal. Success comes to some. They enjoy profitability, growth and
 expanded resources, but they also must cope with increasing bureaucracy and managerial
 challenges. The lucky few become world-class organizations, but eventually most are
 confronted with challenges relating to hubris; extreme size; the difficulty of controlling
 far-flung operations; and perhaps ossification and an unwillingness to innovate and take
 risks. Some stagnate in maturity, and some fail under aging products or excessive debt
 loads and move into distress and bankruptcy. The reason I say failure carries within itself
 the seeds of success is that bankruptcy then permits some of them to shed debt and
 onerous contracts and emerge with a reborn emphasis on frugality and profitability. And
 the cycle resumes . . . as ever.

 The biggest mistakes I have witnessed in my investing career came when people ignored
 the limitations imposed by the corporate life cycle. In short, investors did assume trees
 could grow to the sky. In 1999, just as in 1969, investors accepted that ultra-high profit
 growth could go on forever. They also concluded that for the stocks of companies
 capable of such growth, no p/e ratio was too high. People extrapolated earnings growth
 of 20%-plus and paid p/e ratios of 50-plus. Of course, when neither the growth nor the
 valuations turned out to be sustainable, losses of 90%-plus became the rule. As always,
 the folly of projecting limitless growth became obvious in retrospect.

 The exigencies of the corporate life cycle usually render ultra-high growth rates
 unsustainable. Regardless of the improbability, however, investors indulge in "the willing
 suspension of disbelief" (which I always bring to the movies but check at the door when I
 come to work). They assume that successful companies will be able to attract enough
 talent, develop enough new products, access enough new markets, fend off competition
 while protecting high profit margins, and correctly make the strategic adaptations needed
 to keep growing . . . but it rarely works that way.

 In February an article in Fortune magazine, covering 1960-80, 1970-90 and 1980-99,
 showed that out of 150 candidates among large companies, only four or five in each
 period were able to grow earnings per share at 15% per year on average. Only one, Philip
 Morris, grew at that rate for all three periods. The key for Philip Morris wasn't a
 technological miracle or a fabulous new growth product; it was solid blocking and
 tackling in areas of stable consumer demand. So the latest "wonder-company" with a
 unique product rarely possesses the secret of rapid growth forever. I think it's safer to
 expect a company's growth rate to regress toward the mean than it is to expect perpetual
 motion.

 Business Fads and Fancies
 U

 We all laugh about hemlines, which fluctuate from year to year and add nothing to society
 but cost. The truth is, there's no place for them to go but up and down . . . and so they do.
 Likewise, there are business trends that have nowhere to go but back and forth . . . and so
 they do.

 Take corporate diversification, for example. As a new equity analyst in 1970, one of my
 first assignments was to study conglomerates, starting with Litton, ITT, Whittaker,
 Teledyne and City Investing. It was widely held that their diversification and synergies
 (along with the magic of acquisition accounting and high p/e "funny money") could
 produce rapid growth forever. They pursued large numbers of acquisitions (ITT made 52
 one year) and were rewarded with very high p/e ratios (which enabled them to prolong
 their growth for a while through further anti-dilutive acquisitions).

 It wasn't long, however, before their dependence on sky-high multiples was recognized
 and difficulties surfaced in connection with the management of their diverse
 organizations. Their managers switched to stressing the benefits of specialization (as
 opposed to diversification), and the head of Whittaker wrote a paper extolling the virtues
 of a process he called "distillation of the product centroid." Units began to be sold off
 and the companies deconglomerated. It's interesting to note that none of those five
 companies exists today.

 Diversification or specialization? Centralization or decentralization? Savings through
 just-in-time inventories or protection from stockpiles and redundancy? Tough goal-
 oriented management or warm-and-fuzzy work environments? Leverage on the upside
 through maximum debt or the safety that comes from a large equity cushion? The

 pendulum in each of these continua can do nothing but swing back and forth, and so it
 does. The answer is that there is no perfect answer. Companies move toward one
 extreme as it becomes more popular. Then the drawbacks surface and they move back
 toward the other. There's no place else for companies to move with regard to each of
 these questions, and so they cycle from one extreme to the other.

 Likewise, there are cyclical fluctuations in how business phenomena are viewed. People
 move en masse toward one view, and when it turns out that no view can hold the answer,
 they move away from it.

 For example, in the 1990s, information technology was thought to hold the answer to
 increased corporate efficiency. A great deal of the decade's bull market was fed by gains
 in productivity, which contributed greatly to both earnings and the p/e ratios investors
 applied to them. Technology-derived gains in productivity were embraced as having
 fundamentally altered the growth potential of companies and the economy. In testimony
 to the House of Representatives on February 23, 2000, Alan Greenspan said:

 . . . there are few signs to date of slowing in the pace of innovation and the spread
 of our newer technologies that, as I have indicated in previous testimonies, have
 been at the root of our extraordinary productivity improvement. Indeed, some
 analysts conjecture that we still may be in the earlier stages of the rapid adoption
 of new technologies and not yet in sight of the stage when this wave of innovation
 will crest.

 Well, I know what did crest within 30 days: the stock market. And on October 24, 2001,
 just twenty months later, a less expansive Mr. Greenspan was quoted in the Wall Street
 Journal as saying:

 What the events of September 11 did was to introduce a whole new set of
 uncertainties which information technology is not going to improve our insight
 into. And so it is a reversal of some of the forces that engendered the productivity
 acceleration of the last five years.

 In other words, what had been thought to be a fundamental and durable change has
 proved to be one more development whose ability to wax and wane has to be
 acknowledged and watched. The gains from productivity are proving to be cyclical, and
 the cycle shorter than had been expected.

 The Market Cycle
 U

 At the University of Chicago, I was taught that the value of an asset is the discounted
 present value of its future cash flows. If this is true, we should expect the prices of assets
 to change in line with changes in the outlook for their cash flows. But we know that asset
 prices often rise and fall without regard for cash flows, and certainly by amounts that are
 entirely disproportionate to the changes in cash flows.

 Finance professors would say that these fluctuations reflect changes in the discount rate
 being applied to the cash flows or, in other words, changes in valuation parameters.
 Practitioners would agree that changes in p/e ratios are responsible, and we all know that
 p/e ratios fluctuate much more radically than do company fundamentals.

 The market has a mind of its own, and its changes in valuation parameters, caused
 primarily by changes in investor psychology (not changes in fundamentals), that account
 for most short-term changes in security prices. This psychology, too, moves in a highly
 cyclical manner.

 For decades - literally - I've been lugging around what I thought was a particularly
 apt enumeration of the three stages of a bull market:

 the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get
 better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone concludes everything will get better forever.

 Why would anyone waste time trying for a better description? This one says it all.

 Stocks are cheapest when everything looks grim. The depressing outlook keeps them
 there, and only a few astute and daring bargain hunters are willing to take new positions.
 Maybe their buying attracts some attention, or maybe the outlook turns a little less
 depressing, but for one reason or another, the market starts moving up.

 After a while, the outlook seems a little less poor. People begin to appreciate that
 improvement is taking place, and it requires less imagination to be a buyer. Of course,
 with the economy and market off the critical list, they pay prices that are more reflective
 of stocks' fair values.

 And eventually, giddiness sets in. Cheered by the improvement in economic and
 corporate results, people become willing to extrapolate it. The masses become excited
 (and envious) about the profits made by investors who were early, and they want in. And
 they ignore the cyclical nature of things and conclude that the gains will go on forever.
 That's why I love the old adage "What the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does
 in the end." Most importantly, in the late stages of the great bull markets, people become
 willing to pay prices for stocks that assume the good times will go on ad infinitum.

 But they cannot. When the tech bubble was roaring ahead in late 1999, no one could
 think of any development that might be capable of bringing it to an end. Technology was
 certain to revolutionize everyday life, creating a new investment paradigm. Revenue
 growth (or at least the growth in "eye-balls") was strong. Capital was freely available,
 enabling expansion to continue and new, innovative companies to be formed. Cash flows
 into mutual funds and 401(k)s guaranteed steady demand for the stocks. Each time
 another tech stock was added to an index, a whole new group of forced buyers was
 created among index funds and the active managers benchmarked against that index. No

 portfolio manager could take the risk of under-owning these stocks; they had to buy
 them regardless of price! Eureka! There was no way they could stop going up. The
 perpetual motion machine had been built.

 But somehow, the stocks did stop going up. And then they started going down. I don't
 think anyone can say just what it was that caused the tech bubble to burst. Certainly I
 can't think of any one thing - even in hindsight, which is usually 20:20. Maybe the
 groundwork was laid for declines when it was shown merely that the rise could slow.
 Maybe a few smart people, to paraphrase the third of the three stages, concluded that
 everything wouldn't get better forever. The best explanation probably is that the prices
 U U

 just collapsed under their own weight.

 Anyway, the market proved - once again - that it can't move in one direction forever. It
 has to be appreciated in cyclical terms, with increases followed by decreases, and in
 fact with increases causing decreases.
 U U

 In April 1991 , in just my second general memo to clients, I described the market as
 follows:

 The mood swings of the securities markets resemble the movement of a
 pendulum. Although the midpoint of its arc best describes the position of a
 pendulum "on average," it actually spends very little of its time there. Instead, it
 is almost always swinging toward or away from the extremes of its arc. But
 whenever the pendulum is near either extreme, it is inevitable that it will move
 back toward the midpoint sooner or later. In fact, it is the movement toward an
 extreme itself that supplies the energy for the swing back.

 Investment markets make the same pendulum-like swing:

 between euphoria and depression,
 between celebrating positive developments and obsessing over negatives, and
 thus
 between overpriced and underpriced.

 The swing of the pendulum? The oscillation of the cycle? Either way's fine - just don't
 tell me it'll be a straight line.

 In 1999, the Wall Street Journal ran a number of OpEd pieces by James Glassman and
 Kevin Hassett trumpeting the theory behind the book "Dow 36,000." I couldn't think of
 anything that made less sense. By last month, it seemed the Journal's story had changed:

 With economic conditions turning downward so quickly, pushed along by the
 events of Sept. 11, a lot of business books have been rendered irrelevant, even
 silly. Anyone remember "Dow 36,000"?

 How quickly views change, and how quickly the logical-sounding rationale for lofty or
 depressed prices is shown in retrospect to have been "silly."

 * * *

 The risks entailed in ignoring the inherently cyclical nature of things are manifold, and
 the various cycles interact, often in ways that surprise the optimists. On October 26 the
 beautifully written (but inaptly-titled) "Grant's Interest Rate Observer" described the
 situation at a fallen telecommunications giant as follows:

 In the New Economy, the front office seemed persuaded, there would be no
 recession (let alone a global recession) and no bear market (especially one
 concentrated in technology). There would be no pause in the growth of the
 demand for broadband, no collapse in the price of broadband access and no credit
 contraction. What we are looking at . . . is compressed cash flow at the trough in a
 cyclical business so new that its proponents have yet to discover that it is, in fact,
 cyclical.

 This example represents a four-bagger. It seems the company's management ignored the
 cyclicality of (l) the economy, (2) the stock market, (3) the availability of credit, and (4)
 the demand and price for its product. As in this case, the failure to prepare for cycles
 usually leads to what later are perceived as obvious, easily-avoided mistakes.

 Cycles and How To Live With Them
 U

 No one knew when the tech bubble would burst, and no one knew what the extent of the
 correction could be or how long it would last. But it wasn't impossible to get a sense that
 the market was euphoric and investors were behaving in an unquestioning, giddy manner.
 That was all it would have taken to avoid a great deal of the carnage.

 Having said that, I want to point out emphatically that many of those who complained
 about the excessive market valuations - including me - started to do so years too soon.
 And for a long time, another of my old standards was proved true: "being too far ahead of
 your time is indistinguishable from being wrong." Some of the cautious investors ran out
 of staying power, losing their jobs or their clients because of having missed the gains.
 Some capitulated and, having missed the gains, jumped in just in time to participate in the
 losses.

 So I'm not trying to give the impression that coping with cycles is easy. But I do
 think it's a necessary effort. We may never know where we're going, or when the
 tide will turn, but we had better have a good idea where we are.