Memo: Learning From Enron.

The investigation was not completed until June . . . The testimony had brought to
 light a shocking corruption, . . . a widespread repudiation of widespread standards
 of honesty and fair dealing . . . and a merciless exploitation of the vicious
 possibilities of intricate corporate chicanery. The public had been deeply aroused
 by the spectacle of cynical disregard of fiduciary duty . . .

 Part of a draft post-mortem for Enron? Could be, but it's not. It's a passage from one of
 my favorite books, "Wall Street Under Oath." The book was written in 1939 by
 Ferdinand Pecora, who served as Counsel for the Senate Committee on Banking and
 Currency investigating the Crash of '29 and went on to become a Justice of the Supreme
 Court of New York. It recounts the outrageous 1920s conduct of commercial/investment
 bankers that inspired the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 enactment of securities laws that govern our industry to this day. The bankers' conduct
 was rife with self-dealing, conflicts of interest and gross dishonesty.

 In other words, reviewing the 1920s reminds us of history's tendency to repeat.

 U What Can We Learn From Enron?

 An article about Enron in the December 5 Wall Street Journal made a big impression on
 me. Headlined "Behind Enron's Fall, a Culture of Operating Outside the Public's View,"
 it read in part as follows:

 It was vintage Enron: minimal disclosure of financial information that, in
 retrospect, was central to understanding the complex company . . . . virtually
 unseen until the end was an Enron culture that contained the seeds of its collapse,
 a culture of highly questionable financial engineering, misstated earnings and
 persistent efforts to keep investors in the dark.

 Senior Enron executives flouted elementary conflict-of-interest standards. The
 company hired legions of lawyers and accountants to help it meet the letter of
 Federal securities laws while trampling on the intent of those laws. It became
 adept at giving technically correct answers rather than simply honest ones.

 The article, and particularly the last sentence quoted above, prompted me to write a year-
 end memo to Oaktree' s staff stressing the importance of taking "the high road" and
 describing Enron as "a pretty good example of what Oaktree doesn't want to be."

 What we knew about Enron in December was a fraction of what we know today. It's now
 clear that there are many lessons to be learned from it.

 Questionable Transactions - Form Over Substance
 U

 As little as six months ago, Enron was considered an exemplar of corporate growth and
 ingenuity. Little did we know, however, that its inventiveness had been directed not at
 developing highly profitable businesses, but rather transactions that could be used to paint
 an inaccurate picture of Enron and still squeak by under Generally Accepted Accounting
 Principles. Some of these transactions were breathtaking in their duplicity and chutzpah.

 The most notorious examples relate to the creation of off-balance sheet partnerships.
 These "special-purpose entities" were used to hide debt and pump profits. As our analysts
 studied Enron, they couldn't believe the lengths to which its management had gone.

 When Enron wanted to increase its debt to an extent that would have jeopardized the
 credit rating that was so essential to its business, it formed partnerships to do the
 borrowing away from Enron's balance sheet. Off-balance sheet partnerships are common,
 but for their debt not to be consolidated with that of the parent, outsiders must provide at
 least 3% of their equity capital. The self-interest of the providers of this risk capital, it is
 thought, will serve to keep the entities independent.

 But Enron had a problem. It wanted to avoid consolidation with its own financial
 statements, but it feared that vigilance on the part of outside investors would prevent
 Enron from doing all it wanted in the partnerships. Investors with capital at risk would
 care about how much debt was taken on, what the partnerships bought with the borrowed
 money, and at what prices. They might even worry about having Enron executives
 running the partnerships, which did business with Enron. So outside equity capital had to
 be attracted to satisfy GAAP, but truly self-interested investors had to be avoided if Enron
 was to maintain its flexibility.

 How could outsiders be enticed to invest capital without caring? Simple: guarantee the
 results. The key was for Enron, not the investors, to absorb the risk. This is
 accomplished by promising a full return of capital, and returns up to 30% a year in some
 cases, and backing the promise with Enron stock. Certainly the security provided by this
 investment-grade company's soaring stock would be solid. Enron also guaranteed some
 of the loans to these entities.

 So with the "outside" investors' risk covered by Enron and the "independent" partnerships
 squarely under its control, they could be used any way Enron chose. When assets
 declined in value, the partnerships would buy them at Enron's cost, hiding the losses.
 When profits seemed likely to disappoint in a quarter, assets could be sold to the
 partnerships at inflated prices, covering the shortfall. And with investors insulated from
 the impact, there was no one to question the prices at which these trades took place and

 supply the "arms-length" aspect that would be present in dealings with a truly
 independent entity.

 Less often discussed, but equally questionable, were the transactions that gave Enron
 mark-to-market profits. For example, Enron Energy Services was a highly-touted
 division that contracted to deliver electricity, gas and energy management services to
 commercial customers, sometimes for periods of up to a decade. Under mark-to-market
 accounting, anticipated profits from those contracts were reflected immediately.

 Mark-to-market accounting is based on the view that because contracts signed today can
 greatly influence a company's value, the future profits or losses they imply should be
 recognized. Based on the terms of the contracts and the likely cost of fulfilling them,
 management projects the profit that will arise and runs it through the income statement.
 Obviously, the appropriateness of these profit projections depends on the reasonableness
 of the cost estimates. If I have agreed to supply gasoline six months from now at $2 per
 gallon, you can probably depend on the profits I say I'll make. But the accuracy of profit
 figures for supplying electricity in 2010 is another story.

 Although that technique is standard in commodities trading, problems emerge
 when there is no liquid market that can establish with a degree of certainty what
 future market values will be. (Los Angeles Times, February 12, 2002)

 At Enron, we're told, the "reliable source" for documenting the future value of contracts -
 and thus their contribution to the current year's profits - was the company's own models.
 That's the equivalent of letting ballplayers call the game and keep their own scores.

 The last type of transaction I'll discuss are derivative trades that made loans look like
 sales. Again, the amounts of money Enron needed to fund its perpetual motion machine
 exceeded the amounts that could be borrowed without causing its credit to be downgraded
 and bringing the motion to a halt. So Enron found a way to enter into "swap" transactions
 using derivative contracts that in effect were loans but could be accounted for in other
 ways.

 In a normal swap transaction, party A pays party B a premium to exchange one flow of
 funds for another. For example, if party A holds a floating-rate loan but doesn't want to
 bear interest rate uncertainty, he might offer party B a fee plus the stream of payments on
 that loan in exchange for the payments on a hypothetical fixed-rate loan of the same
 amount and maturity.

 In Enron's transactions, a financial institution agreed to accept one stream of payments in
 exchange for another and then paid Enron the estimated present value of the stream it had
 U U

 agreed to pay over time. Trades like these are called "prepaid swaps," because the
 financial institution agrees to pay immediately for the stream of future payments to which
 it becomes entitled. Thus Enron got a lump sum from the financial institution in
 exchange for the promise of payments in the future.

 That sounds like a loan to me. However, Enron's balance sheet told a different story.
 Because the derivatives related to commodities, the receipts usually were shown as
 "assets from price risk management" and the payments that it was obliged to make as
 "liabilities from price risk management." No loan transaction; just money in Enron's till
 and an obligation to make payments that amounted to interest and principal.

 There's nothing wrong per se with off-balance sheet partnerships, mark-to-market
 accounting or swap transactions, or with the standard methods of accounting for them.
 They're engaged in many times a day, and almost always benignly. The problem arises
 when these transactions are entered into and accounted for so as to fool, misrepresent and
 obscure.

 Among the common threads running through Enron's financial practices is the fact
 that (1) they had been designed for uses other than those to which Enron put them,
 and (2) Enron's accounting for them provided a distorted picture of what was
 actually going on.

 U What Was Wrong With Enron's Accounting?

 The principal problem was that the transactions represented an effort to use accounting as
 a weapon against investors, rating agencies, counterparties and regulators.

 Although the opponents of gun control like to say that "guns don't kill people; people kill
 people," I think it's people misusing guns who kill people. By the same token, it's not
 accounting that creates abuses, but people misusing accounting.

 Like most things, transactions like those described above can be abused and misused. At
 their best they allow companies to accomplish legitimate goals and communicate them
 clearly. At their worst they can be used to circumvent their normal purposes and avoid
 apprehension (certainly as in "understanding," but perhaps as in "arrest" as well).

 It seems clear that Enron's executives didn't say "What transaction is in the best
 interest of Enron and its shareholders, and what's the clearest way to account for
 it?" Rather, they tried to come up with a form of transaction that could be described so
 as to convey the desired impression - even if the transaction served no valid business
 purpose for Enron and the accounting for it was misleading.

 While failings on the part of its executives, directors and outside auditors certainly
 contributed, Enron was able to do this in large part because the accounting profession had
 set out numerical rules that could serve as a roadmap for duplicity, rather than principles
 that would set standards for the intent and effect of financial reporting. The Wall Street
 Journal of February 12 explained the distinction:

 Auditors who issue clean bills of health are required to certify that a company's
 financial statements fairly represent the client company's financial performance.

 But critics of the accounting profession today say that over the past three decades
 the standard setters have moved away from establishing broad accounting
 principles aimed at insuring that companies' financial statements are fairly
 presented.

 Instead, they have moved toward drafting voluminous rules that may shield
 auditors and companies from legal liability if technically followed in check-box
 fashion. That can result in companies creating complex structures that technically
 comply with GAAP but hide billions of dollars of debt or other corporate
 obligations.

 As the Wall Street Journal wrote on February 1 and 8,

 . . . sometimes persnickety rules can become a license for larger dishonesty.

 This new environment's two highest values are tolerance and proceduralism. That
 doesn't encourage good judgment; it suppresses it.

 So the lessons regarding accounting are simple:

 We need accounting standards that are set and enforced in terms of
 principles, not just technical rules.
 Accounting is like any other tool; the results will depend on whose hands it's
 in.

 The Origins of Corporate Corruption
 U

 For those seeking an explanation for fortuitous outcomes, luck has been described as
 "what happens when preparation meets opportunity." I think Enron inspires a similar
 explanation for corruption: it's what happens when exigency meets moral weakness.

 If Oaktree got into a bind, I hope we would admit that performance wasn't measuring up
 to expectations, that things weren't going our way, or that we simply had made mistakes.
 I hope we would accept the consequences and try to remedy the situation.

 Unfortunately, however, not everyone works that way. Some people are less eager to
 face the music. If the high road doesn't work out and doing the right thing isn't of great
 concern, there are people who will cut a few corners or look for a "creative" way out.

 I have no reason to believe Enron was formed in 1985 to be the Potemkin village it
 became, with the intention of misrepresenting results and profiting executives rather than
 shareholders. And I doubt if anyone said, "Who cares if we hire executives that are
 morally soft?" I think Ken Lay once had a dream that truly included new ways to profit
 in a changing energy industry. But when things didn't go according to plan and

 maintaining a lofty stock price became a challenging obsession, the people who mattered
 most either engaged in corrupt practices or failed to blow the whistle on them.

 Corporate Rot Can Spread From the Executive Suite
 U

 In fact, Enron's culture in recent years seems to have encouraged doing the wrong thing.
 Certainly, the jury is still out regarding Ken Lay. Was he the oblivious dreamer who
 couldn't understand the details, trusted the wrong people and was duped? Or was he the
 manipulative master criminal we've heard vilified in Congress?

 Whichever was the case, right now we only know the results. It certainly appears that
 Enron was a company where:

 hubris was encouraged,
 schemers rose to the top,
 people were rewarded for ends, not means, and
 no one ever asked "but is it right?"

 Whistleblower Sherron Watkins has said that questioning CEO Jeff Skilling about the
 propriety of the partnerships would have been "job suicide." CFO Andrew Fastow is said
 to have cursed at the Enron representatives who negotiated against the partnerships he ran
 and to have tried to get one fired. Lawyers will argue the specifics, and judges and juries
 will decide, but it seems clear that there were bad guys at Enron, and that nothing in the
 climate there encouraged doing the right thing.

 And encouraging moral behavior, perhaps above all else, is the responsibility of top
 management. One thing I'm convinced of is that you can't have a great organization
 without someone at the top setting the tone. The Chairman and CEO can't know
 everything that goes on in a company, can't be conversant with the details and merits of
 every transaction, and can't participate in any but the most senior hires. But they can
 create a climate where expectations are high and the emphasis is on means, not just
 ends.

 When I get through telling prospective clients how well my partners manage Oaktree's
 portfolios, some ask, "Then what do you do?" In addition to communicating with clients
 U U

 and managing the business, I tell them, I try to provide leadership. You can't see it
 around the office or quantify its effect on the results, but it's what makes a company what
 it is.

 That Depends on the Meaning of the Word "True"
 U

 I've seen organizations where, it seemed to me, the standard for truth was that "if
 something cannot definitively be proved to be a lie, we can say it's the truth." That
 standard, at best, appears to be what guided Enron.

 No one in control at Enron seems to ever to have said "Wait a minute! That's not
 what's really happening here" or "That description is too unclear to be useful."
 Enron appears to have used a very special dictionary. Its key verbs were "mislead,"
 "obfuscate," "manipulate" and "disguise." Its adjectives were "opaque," "Byzantine" and
 "technically correct." And they had no need for "straightforward," "arms-length" or
 "candid." Much of the disclosure that did take place seems to have been arranged so that,
 if need be, Enron executives could say "if you looked in the right place and read it the
 way we intended, you couldn't say it's not there."

 For example, if it was the number of words that counted, this paragraph from a much
 longer Enron footnote might pass for full disclosure.

 In 2000, Enron entered into transactions with the Related Party to hedge certain merchant
 investments and other assets. As part of the transactions, Enron (i) contributed to newly-formed
 entities (the Entities) assets valued at approximately $1.2 billion, including $150 million in Enron
 notes payable, 3.7 million restricted shares of outstanding Enron common stock and the right to
 receive up to 18.0 million shares of outstanding Enron common stock in March 2003 (subject to
 certain conditions) and (ii) transferred to the Entities assets valued at approximately $309 million,
 including a $50 million note payable and an investment in an entity that indirectly holds warrants
 convertible into common stock of an Enron equity method investee. In return, Enron received
 economic interests in the Entities, $309 million in notes receivable, of which $259 million is
 recorded at Enron's carryover basis of zero, and a special distribution from the Entities in the form
 of $1.2 billion in notes receivable, subject to changes in the principal for amounts payable by
 Enron in connection with the execution of additional derivative instruments. Cash in these Entities
 of $172.6 million is invested in Enron demand notes. In addition, Enron paid $123 million to
 purchase share-settled options from the Entities on 21.7 million shares of Enron common stock.
 The Entities paid Enron $10.7 million to terminate the share-settled options on 14.6 million shares
 of Enron common stock outstanding. In late 2000, Enron entered into share-settled collar
 arrangements with the Entities on 15.4 million shares of Enron common stock. Such arrangements
 will be accounted for as equity transactions when settled.

 Could anyone tell what these 260 words meant? There's a lot of ink there, not much
 information. Disclosure doesn't mean putting facts out there indecipherably, but
 rather in a way that lets people discern their significance.

 Obviously, Enron's communication was the opposite of truthful and complete. Equally
 obviously, Enron didn't want people to know what was going on. Truth was scarce at
 Enron, and something to be toyed with. The examples ranged from ridiculous to
 extremely serious. We can chuckle at the thought of Enron building a sham trading floor
 and coaching secretaries on how to sound like traders when analysts walked through. But
 there's nothing funny about the money people lost because, as the February 4 issue of
 Business Week reported,

 In September, Lay told employees: "Talk up the stock and talk positively about
 Enron to your family and friends." The company's upcoming financial report, he
 said, was "looking great."

 This was a few weeks after Jeffrey Skilling resigned and Lay was told by Sherron Watkins of
 her concerns, while he was actively selling his stock, and a few weeks before a $1.2 billion
 downward restatement of Enron' s net worth.

 And it seems old habits die hard. Just a week or so ago, in defending the juxtaposition of
 negative developments at Enron and Ken Lay's stock sales, a spokesperson pointed out
 that Lay had bought stock last summer. True as far as it goes, it's my belief that he sold
 or otherwise disposed of more shares than he bought. It's funny how someone might take
 "he bought stock" to mean, "he bought stock on balance." To paraphrase a former world
 leader, it all depends on the meaning of the word "true."

 The acid test for the truth is really quite simple: If everyone got a chance to
 knowledgeably compare reality against what we say about it, what would they
 think? Enron wouldn't have done very well under that standard.

 Conflicts of Interest
 U

 It's an old-fashioned question, but one that seems to have been forgotten at Enron: Whose
 interests come first?

 Each of us encounters this question daily, having to balance the interests of others against
 our own. Should I slow down for the driver signaling to change lanes? Can I take the last
 piece on the platter? The biggest one? If I'm late for a flight, is it okay to push through
 the security line? Is it fair to just pick out the cashews and almonds, or must I eat my
 share of filberts and peanuts too? Is it okay to break a date when a better offer comes
 along?

 These decisions aren't easy. Rabbi Hillel described the dilemma two thousand years ago:
 "If I am not for myself, who will be? And if I am not for others, what am I?" Despite the
 difficulty, most of us were taught by our parents to do a decent job of balancing self-
 interest and the interests of others.

 For people in positions as fiduciaries, the law makes it a lot simpler: the other guy comes
 first. It's obvious that an executor can't buy assets from the estate at bargain prices.
 Likewise, company managers and directors owe their first loyalty to shareholders,
 pension plan beneficiaries and, in insolvency, to creditors.

 Like the test for truth, the test on handling conflicts seems pretty simple: If everything
 we do ends up in the headlines, will anyone have grounds for complaint? Well, no
 one seems to have applied that test at Enron. It all made it to the headlines, and Enron
 flopped.

 The most egregious instance involves executives like Chief Financial Officer Andrew
 Fastow and Managing Director Michael Kopper who (1) set up off-balance sheet entities
 that did business with Enron, (2) assumed control of those entities, (3) negotiated on

 behalf of the entities with Enron subordinates whose compensation they determined, and
 (4) profited fabulously. Fastow is famous for having made $30 million from the entities,
 and Kopper made at least $10 million. Given that the partnerships are generally not
 believed to have served valid business purposes, those profits represent a direct transfer
 from Enron's coffers to those of the employees for which Enron received no legitimate
 quid pro quo.

 By the way, Enron had an ethics policy, and it probably would have prohibited these
 things. So the directors voted to waive the policy. But that vote didn't make the actions
 right.

 Neither was it a good idea for Ken Lay's sister to be Enron's travel agent, or for Enron to
 contract with and invest in companies owned by Lay and his son. Each of these might
 have had a valid business purpose. But it's essential to avoid both conflicts and the
 appearance of conflicts. We all might like to use employer dollars to benefit our
 relatives, our friends, and even ourselves, but the temptation must be resisted. If top
 executives engage in transactions that suggest self-dealing, even if they might be capable
 of tortuous rationalization, it makes a statement that fiduciary duty and moral behavior
 are dispensable. What could be worse?

 In the business world, potential conflicts of interest arise all the time. We can't
 avoid them, but our goal must be to deal with them honorably. Clients,
 shareholders and others who depend on us must come first.

 U Whose Company Is It, Anyway?

 When a public company is involved, an important question is whether management acts
 like the company belongs to them or to the shareholders.

 As part of my business education I learned that America's commercial progress took a big
 step forward when management was separated from ownership. About a century ago,
 companies began to be turned over to hired managers. Because company owners aren't
 necessarily the best managers, it followed that the emergence of a professional manager
 class would, on balance, enhance the quality of management.

 This made great sense to me. Certainly this separation is one of the things that made
 America the world leader in business. But now I think it has gone too far in some cases.
 Alan Greenspan said recently, "There has been a severance, in my judgment, of the interests
 of the chief executive officer in many corporations from those of the shareholders, and that
 should be pulled together." (Los Angeles Times, February 28, 2002)

 Enron's managers didn't act like paid caretakers of other people's company, but
 rather as if they owned it. Of course, Ken Lay et al. would argue that everything they
 did was done to create value for the shareholders. But is there any reason to believe they
 acted the way the shareholders would have wanted them to act? Certainly they can't

 argue that they had the shareholders' blessing, given that they never let on what they were
 really doing.

 Of course, executives defend their actions by invoking the cloak of shareholder
 governance: that shareholders elect the directors, and it's the directors who choose and
 direct the CEO. We've seen hundreds of times, however, how hard it is for the company-
 proposed slate of directors to lose an election or for a dissident proposal to be passed.

 Acting in the interests of shareholders is just one option for management today, and
 clearly it wasn't the one chosen at Enron.

 Aligning Interests
 U

 About a decade ago, Forbes published a special issue on executive compensation. In it, a
 sage, experienced director said of managers, "I've given up on getting them to do what I
 tell them to do; they do what I pay them to do." I've never forgotten that statement.

 When individual compensation gets into the tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars
 per year (including stock and options), managers profit as if they owned the company and
 took the risk. They appropriate a major share of profits for themselves in the good years,
 even though they lose nothing (other than perhaps potential or previously-accrued profits)
 in the bad ones.

 Set up this way, management has lots of incentive to take risk and cut corners. It sure
 worked that way at Enron. The executives can point out that the board approved the key
 elements in the compensation program. But once again, I say the board's control over
 management is limited.

 Options have played a major part in the trend toward outsized compensation. Early on,
 when their use began, it was felt that options would align the interests of management
 with those of the shareholders by (1) interesting management in how the stock did, and
 (2) tying compensation to the company's long-term performance.

 As with so many things, however, the negatives have been found out through experience:

 Options focus attention on short-term performance, not long-term.
 Options focus attention on the performance of the stock, not the company (and
 those are two very different things).
 Options give management a skewed interest in the company. It was thought that
 they would make managers into stockholders, but this is rarely the case.
 Employees usually sell very soon after exercising, often simultaneously. This is
 because they either don't have enough capital to hold or don't want to bear the
 downside risk. Thus executives profit from share appreciation but rarely hold
 shares. That's very different from the lot of the company's owners.

 Because the cost of option programs never shows up in the income statement,
 their cost is considered in a distorted way. Option grants amount to giving a
 portion of the company to the employees, but no net income effect is ever seen
 under current GAAP.
 Stock price declines introduce the unattractive dilemma of option repricing.
 When a stock falls precipitously, management often proposes a commensurate
 reduction of the exercise price on options. With shareholders having taken a big
 loss, it seems unfair to exempt executives from the pain. But it is true that old
 options that are way out of the money won't serve to retain and motivate
 employees. And with option grants "free," repricing often is irresistible.

 It seems obvious that the option culture, the stock market bubble and the advent of
 mega-compensation have combined in the worst of cases to encourage short-term
 fixes and artful - even fraudulent - accounting. I think it's no coincidence that our
 high yield bond portfolios encountered two examples of accounting fraud in February
 2001 alone, more than in the previous twenty years put together.

 Moving away from the subject of options, the New York Times of March 1 indicated
 another way in which compensation incentives can be counterproductive. Early in 2001,
 the Times reported, Enron executives and other employees received hundreds of millions
 of dollars in bonuses tied to earnings and stock price performance.

 . . . executives received large bonuses . . . with the amount based in large part on
 the earnings of the company - figures that investigators for a special committee of
 the Enron board have concluded were inappropriately inflated by company
 executives . . .

 Legal experts said that the payments could provide strong evidence of a motive
 for the financial machinations that investigators think distorted the company's
 reported performance and ultimately led to its demise. Without those efforts, the
 profits and stock price levels required to obtain the money certainly would not
 have been reached . . .

 Almost every decision that ultimately led to the company's collapse - including the
 establishment of a series of partnerships . . . which an investigating committee of
 the board concluded were used to bolster earnings improperly - was made during
 the time frame [when the earnings test for bonus purposes was underway] . . .

 [According to a former federal prosecutor,] "The level of compensation that we
 are talking about here would certainly seem to be a powerful incentive for
 anyone to do anything." [Emphasis mine]

 Management should be incentivized, but constructively. Excessive, short-term focus
 on stock price performance is not in shareholders' long-term interest and, in
 egregious cases like Enron, obviously can bring disastrous results.

 I also want to touch on the issue of stock sales by executives. Perhaps because it's an
 issue with so much visceral appeal, the headlines are full of "Executives Sold While
 Company Crumbled; Employees and Small Investors Lost Everything."

 But I don't think there's anything inherently wrong with executives selling stock. They
 buy it to profit, and they should be expected to reap that profit at some point in time. If
 the company and the stock do well, appreciation can create a position too large to hold
 prudently. So selling's okay; the issue is when.

 Clearly, managers mustn't sell when they know things others don't. When that's true is a
 tough question and often a matter of degree; no shareholder can ever know as much as the
 CEO does. Selling while saying "the company's doing great" probably isn't a terrific idea
 - especially if it's not. And the number of shares it's proper to sell probably is a function
 of the absolute dollar amounts involved and the number of shares retained.

 One last note: I have absolutely no sympathy for managers who are renegades, like
 Enron's seem to have been, but they're not the only ones at fault here. Every investor
 who's complaining about the stock sales made by Enron executives could have
 learned about most of them from government filings and sold alongside. In fact, the
 onus is on investors who hold or buy while insiders are announcing massive sales.
 Investors must accept responsibility for their actions; Enron's faulty transactions might
 have been covert, but most of the stock sales took place in plain sight.

 U Where Does the Buck Stop?

 While we're on the subject of responsibility, who else should accept it in the case of
 Enron? (So far I haven't seen many hands going up.)

 The little guys are employing the Nuremberg defense: "I only did what I was told." And
 they're right most of the time. It's true they could have objected to what they saw, but that
 would be asking a lot. The combination of certitude, principles, career alternatives and/or
 financial resources needed to create a whistleblower occurs only rarely.

 Sherron Watkins might be the closest thing thus far, and she certainly did raise red flags
 in her memo of August. She was brave and stepped forward when few others did, but I'm
 not ready to canonize her yet. Before I do so, I'll have to get over the large number of
 references in her memo not to what was right or wrong, but to what might be found out.
 In August she wrote:

 Skilling's abrupt departure will raise suspicions,
 we will have to pony up Enron stock, and that won't go unnoticed,
 I am incredibly nervous that we will implode in a wave of accounting scandals,
 we are under too much scrutiny and there are probably one or two 'redeployed'
 employees who know enough about the 'funny' accounting to get us into trouble,
 too many people are looking for a smoking gun,

 we do not have a fact pattern that would look good to the SEC or investors, and
 best case: clean up quietly if possible.

 These quotations certainly suggest a preoccupation with perception. Did Watkins truly
 worry about right and wrong and choose her mode of expression to make an impact on
 Lay and company? Did she write to complain about wrongdoing or just to push for
 damage control? And are they two different things or the same?

 Unlike the little guys, the top execs are employing what I call the Geneva defense: "I
 was in Switzerland during the war." Nobody ordered the misdeeds or even knew about
 them. Either they were out of the room or the lights went off. Control freaks with great
 memories left things to others or can't remember what happened. And, ultimately, they
 claim the directors and auditors approved everything.

 The Role of the Auditors
 U

 Why do companies have auditors? So the owners can be sure that (1) they know what
 management is doing and (2) the financial statements accurately reflect what's going on.
 As such, auditors play an absolutely essential role in the corporate governance process.

 In addition to checking the numbers and opining on the reasonableness of the financial
 statements, it's their job to tell directors, through the audit committee, when something's
 amiss. Every audit committee meeting should include some time when no management
 representatives are present. This is the auditors' chance to tell the directors about things
 they feel are wrong.

 Did Arthur Andersen fulfill its responsibilities at Enron? They say yes and management
 says no. Surprise!! Certainly, at minimum, the picture is less than ideal.

 First, there's no getting around the fact that Andersen certified financial statements
 about which no one has a kind word to say. If they had misgivings, they weren't
 sufficient to make Andersen send up a red flag. We haven't seen any record of
 Andersen expressing misgiving to the audit committee.

 Andersen received $52 million in fees from Enron in 2000, less than half of which
 was for auditing. Auditors' compensation can be so great that keeping the job
 becomes too high a priority.

 Roughly $5 million of the total was for Andersen's help in structuring some of the
 complained-of transactions. When management says, "we'll pay you to think of a
 creative solution to our problem," there's a lot of incentive to come up with something
 that accomplishes the company's objectives in terms of effect and optics. And there's
 U U

 little likelihood that the same firm will disapprove it on audit. It's kind of like paying
 your IRS agent to design a tax shelter.

 Finally, Andersen served Enron for nineteen years, and maybe things got too
 comfortable. While SEC rules require that the audit partner be rotated, they don't
 limit the tenure of the firm.

 On the other hand, in Andersen's defense:

 It's hard for auditors to know more than management will tell them. (It is their job,
 however, to tell the audit committee when they don't feel they're getting complete
 information and to check matters independently where they can.) There's just too
 much evidence to the contrary for anyone to believe that honest auditors will always
 sniff out dishonest management.

 All of the details of the financial statements Andersen certified, and of their
 engagement at Enron, may have met the letter - if not the spirit - of the rules.

 As in any other field, the rotten apple - the dishonest auditor, or even the incompetent
 one - can do a lot of damage. We don't know yet what the real role of Andersen's
 David Duncan was in the Enron debacle, but we may find out if he receives immunity
 as seems to be under discussion.

 Auditors are one of the shareholders' last bastions of protection. The Enron
 example shows us two things: their essential nature and their fallibility. We still
 need more help.

 So Who's Left?
 U

 The shareholders' ultimate protection comes from the board of directors. The
 directors are the representatives of the shareholders and the bosses of the CEO. They are
 in position to hire and fire, and to approve and disapprove. Sounds like there's no one for
 them to pass the buck to.

 But the truth is, the directors don't work at the company, aren't involved in its day-to-day
 affairs, and know little that they don't learn from management. I'm a corporate director,
 and I get my information from management and the auditors (who get much of theirs
 from management). If they're criminal or uninformed, I'm powerless to protect the
 shareholders. Bottom line: we can't prevent all fraud and misrepresentation. At best we
 can discourage it, and at worst we can punish it. We usually assume people are telling the
 truth, and I would hate to work in a place where I can't.

 The contribution of directors can be increased greatly if a few standards are adhered to.
 The failure to do so may have been one of the major problems at Enron:

 First, independent directors must be independent. That means they should be aware
 that they work for the shareholders - not the company or the management - and act like

 it. If directors derive unreasonable benefits from the company, they can lose their
 objectivity, become beholden or grow afraid of losing the job. For just one example in
 the case of Enron, the chairman of the board's investigating committee testified that all of
 the directors flew around on company jets. Would they have been willing to give that up
 to take a stand?

 Second, independent directors have to be hard-working people who will attend
 meetings diligently, ask tough questions and challenge management. We're in the
 process of looking for directors for one of our companies. Someone I asked about a
 prospect said, "He'll be a pain in the ass to management." Within reason, that's what I
 want to hear. Relaxed attitudes negate the concept of independence. Directors who serve
 in perpetuity also should be looked at. After enough years, they can conclude their
 loyalty is to management.

 Third, at least some of the independent directors must be financially astute enough to
 fully understand what's going on. There are valid reasons to include financial novices
 for knowledge they may have in areas like technology, law or the environment. But there
 should be enough financial experts to understand management's actions and question
 them when necessary.

 Lastly, having friends of management as directors can't help the board's
 independence. (Although they are the CEO's bosses, directors often get their jobs
 through the CEO; how's that for a paradox?)

 When, for example, you look down the list of the six directors on Enron's audit committee -
 probably the most important body in terms of protecting the shareholders - you see that at
 least five fail to satisfy all of these criteria:

 RJ chaired the audit committee for 15 years.
 RC missed more than 25% of the board and committee meetings.
 Enron has given $1.5 million to the cancer center JM headed.
 JW got an additional $72,000 a year as a consultant.
 WG's university program received $50,000 in Enron donations.

 Getting highly competent and truly independent directors isn't easy. If the job pays
 too little, nobody qualified will take it. If it pays too much, independence can be
 compromised. And if Enron's board is stripped of indemnification and sued, it may
 become hard for companies to find independent directors at all.

 Ultimately, it must be borne in mind that, under the current system, it's tough for
 shareholders to get boards other than those proposed by management. But as in many of
 the issues under discussion here, that doesn't mean they should stop pushing for boards
 that represent their interests.

 Don't Expect Much Help From the Analysts
 U

 On February 27, the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee held hearings regarding
 sell-side analysts who covered Enron. Its data showed that as late as November 8, weeks
 after the SEC had announced its probe of possible irregularities, 10 out of 15 analysts
 who covered Enron still rated it as a "buy" or "strong buy." (The stock, then around $9, is
 now worth roughly zero.) Enron's debt was selling at roughly 60 cents on the dollar at
 that time. The analysts may have thought the stock was a great buy, but debt investors
 apparently considered it unlikely that the creditors would be paid - in which case the
 stock would be worthless.

 The analysts told the Senators their failure was attributable to the inaccuracy of the Enron
 financial statements on which they had relied. Certainly, analysts' starting point has to be
 the financial statements, and if they're fraudulent, accurate analysis is rendered very
 difficult. But still, an insightful analyst can call attention to poor earnings quality and
 inadequate or unclear reporting. In the case of Enron, none of the prominent sell-side
 analysts seems to have made a peep.

 Thus Enron represents another instance, like the dot-coms, where (a) most benignly,
 we'd have to say brokerage house analysts possess little insight and their opinions
 are of no value, and (b) most cynically, it seems they're not there to help investors as
 much as their companies' investment banking efforts.

 When I started off as an analyst in the 1960s, per-share commissions were high and it was
 the job of brokerage house analysts to generate them. They accomplished this by
 providing superior research. (Outright "sell" recommendations were rare nevertheless,
 perhaps because "buy" recommendations had a much bigger potential audience.) The
 process through which commissions were whittled down and analysts became driven by
 investment banking considerations instead built gradually since then.

 The truth of the matter is that a hard-nosed analyst with a "sell" recommendation is likely
 to generate little in the way of commissions but certain to become persona non grata and
 assure that his employer won't get investment banking business from the subject
 company. Thus, as Sen. Joseph Lieberman said, "These influences compromise an
 analyst's objectivity and mean that the average investor should take their bottom-line
 recommendations with at least a grain of salt, if not a whole bucket."

 Lack of objectivity isn't the only reason why analysts aren't much help. First, it's hard to
 develop superior information; in fact, SEC regulations require companies to give
 everyone the same data at the same time. Second, analysts often develop a closeness with
 companies and their executives that clouds their objectivity. And third, of course, any
 insight analysts may have is distributed widely so as to enter the public domain and
 quickly be reflected in market prices.

 My bottom line on research (as you know): the average analyst isn't much help, and only
 a few are far above average - by definition. If you find an astute and independent
 U U

 analyst, stick with him (or her). Many sophisticated investors have learned to supplement
 brokerage house analysis with input from independent research organizations.

 U Where Does the Buck Stop?

 Ours is a free market. If undeserving (or crooked) companies get capital they
 shouldn't, the responsibility ultimately falls to the providers of equity capital. I've
 read everything I could on Enron, and yet there's almost no mention that shareholders
 may have been remiss.

 Sure, the shareholders were victims of what appears to have been organized and pervasive
 fraud. But no one can say there weren't warning signs. Shareholders held and bought
 Enron stock although they couldn't possibly have thought they understood the financial
 statements, or where the profits came from. They held while the top executives were
 selling. And they remained unperturbed when the CEO quit without explanation.

 And I'm not just talking about individual investors. Al Harrison of Alliance, Enron's
 biggest holder, has been quoted as saying he bought on "faith." He even admits, "The
 company seemed to be on a deliberate path not to give full information. Shame on me for
 not doing something about it." (New York Times, March 3, 2002) Good marks for
 candor; not so good for due diligence.

 I believe many investors underestimate the difficulty of investing, the importance of
 caution and risk aversion, and the need for their active, skeptical involvement in the
 process. Caveat emptor. Or as they say on TV, "don't try this at home."

 Recap, Ramifications and Reform
 U

 As Enron's board committee concluded,

 The tragic consequences of the related-party transactions and accounting errors
 were the result of failures at many levels and by many people: a flawed idea, self-
 enrichment by employees, inadequately designed controls, poor implementation,
 inattentive oversight, simple (and not-so-simple) accounting mistakes, and
 overreaching in a culture that appears to have encouraged pushing the limits.
 (New York Times, February 3, 2002)

 These transactions were just one element in the overall Enron picture, but they typify the
 malfeasance, laxness, and dereliction of duty that were widespread. I have listed some of
 the failings that have been laid to executives, accountants, auditors, directors and analysts.
 Fingers also are being pointed at commercial bankers, investment bankers, rating
 agencies, lawyers, politicians and regulators. Virtually no one has come away unscathed.

 Around the time the Enron disclosures reached their peak, contagion seemed ready to
 sweep the market. Tyco and other companies with "accounting issues" saw their stocks
 collapse. Whereas investors generally placed too much faith in companies in the late
 1990s, now they have become highly skeptical, perhaps unduly so. As a friend described
 it, "A few years ago, if management said 'we'll make $5 billion,' investors swallowed it
 whole. Today if a CFO says 'we have $175 million in cash,' investors ask 'how do we
 know that's true?'''

 We've read about the risk of a widespread loss of investor confidence. Allusions have
 been made to the corrupt practices of the 1920s and the fact that the resulting
 disillusionment had a lot to do with the stock market's doldrums in the following decade.
 Arthur Levitt, the last SEC Chairman, testified on Enron that, "What has failed is nothing
 less than the system for overseeing our capital markets." (Newsweek, February 4, 2002)

 As The New York Times wrote on February 10, "The outcome will depend largely on
 how long the Enron collapse holds the attention of Washington and the public, and on
 whether once-elevated companies also come to be seen as houses of cards kept standing
 by financial sleight of hand." The good news is that no epidemic seems to have taken
 hold. People have been willing thus far to view Enron as an isolated example of
 management run wild.

 That doesn't mean there won't be a spate of regulation and reform. That's what Pecora's
 disclosures produced, and there's no reason it won't happen again. The Enron story
 remains telegenic and political, and that makes it grist for Washington's mill. And I
 certainly don't mean to suggest that some reform isn't needed.

 Here are just a few of the ideas that have surfaced (their presence here absolutely does not
 indicate my endorsement of them):

 On the accounting process : regulate "special-purpose entities" and "off-balance sheet
 U U

 partnerships"; require that option grants be an expense against profits; specify broad
 principles for disclosure, not just technical rules; let the federal government set
 accounting standards.

 On auditors : prohibit or limit non-audit work; make auditor hiring, firing and
 U U

 compensation the province of the board, not management; require increased commentary
 in auditors' opinion letters; enact term limits for auditing firms; restrict the movement of
 personnel from audit firm to client; end self-policing by the profession, substituting an
 outside body; increase "teeth" in disciplinary process regarding auditors; consider
 restoring civil liability for auditors (and lawyers) who "aided or abetted" a violation of
 securities law (eliminated by Supreme Court in 1994).

 On banks : revive the Glass-Steagall Act separating commercial banking and investment
 U U

 banking (ironically, this law was one of the prime outgrowths of Pecora's investigations,
 and its key provisions were repealed just over two years ago); require disclosure of
 contingent liabilities and reserves against them (banks that had committed to lend to

 Enron while it was rated investment grade were taken up on their offer when the credit
 rating collapsed).

 On brokerage house analysts : prohibit compensation tied to investment banking business;
 U U

 require disclosure of the derivation of analysts' pay, and of all fees received from the
 subject company; restrict analysts' trading in recommended stocks; require full disclosure
 of firms' and analysts' holdings and trading in those stocks; separate brokerage and
 research activities from investment banking.

 On 401 (k) plans : limit investment in company stock; ease restrictions on sales of
 U U

 company stock; require notice before a moratorium on participants' changes goes into
 effect; improve reporting and participant counseling.

 On companies, executives and directors : impose penalties for misleading financial
 U U

 statements; punish carelessness, not just fraud; require increased disclosure, especially
 regarding transactions with affiliates and insiders; put controls on the use of "creative"
 accounting concepts such as adjusted pro forma earnings; eliminate personal
 indemnification in cases of misleading financial statements.

 On the SEC : review disclosure regulations; increase power to suspend or bar unethical
 U U

 executives or directors from working at public companies; require quicker, perhaps on-
 line reporting of insider trades (now not required until month-end), including sales back
 to the company (now not required until the next year); increase the SEC's budget so that it
 can hire and retain staff and increase enforcement activity.

 On politicians : enact campaign finance reform (it might be on the way); require reporting
 U U

 of lobbyists' contacts; limit lobbyists' role in drafting legislation.

 This vast laundry list of possible solutions suggests (a) the magnitude of the problem
 indicated by Enron and (b) the eagerness of government to ride to the rescue. Some
 changes will be made, but the belief that the problem isn't widespread should limit their
 scope.

 What's the bottom line, then? The real lessons from Enron, in my opinion, are these:

 As long as there are disclosure rules - and that's forever - there'll be "technically
 correct" statements that leave investors in the dark. In order to get numbers with
 integrity, you need people with integrity.

 Rules are just the first building block in creating a safe market. We also need
 compliance and enforcement, neither of which will ever be 100%. Even though it's
 the best in the world, our system for corporate oversight is far from perfect. The
 collective power of directors, auditors and regulators to protect shareholders withers
 in the face of serious corporate corruption. It's amazing what con men can get away
 with for a while.

 As Enron's complex, questionable transactions indicate, the people looking for holes
 in the rules are often highly motivated, well financed and well advised. Those whose
 job it is to plug the loopholes are often over-matched, and their efforts to do so
 usually amount to a holding action. The furor over Enron's accounting shows that we
 need the ability to insist on adherence to general principles and punish those who
 violate them.

 Security analysis and knowledgeable investing aren't easy. Investors must be alert for
 fuzzy or incomplete information, and for companies that don't put their interests first.
 They must invest only when they know what they don't know, and they must insist on
 sufficient margin for error owing to any shortcomings.

 We all must watch out for unintended consequences, and that's especially true when
 promulgating regulations. Accounting rules and option programs were created with
 the best of intentions, but in the extreme they led to Enron's noxious transactions and
 counterproductive incentives. It'll be no less true the next time around.

 I apologize for the length of this memo, but the Enron matter is so sweeping and multi-
 faceted that I found it inescapable. It is my aim here to shed light, not to recount events. I
 hope you'll find it interesting and of use.


Memo: The Realist's Creed.

Early this year, I was asked to write an article for "Trusts & Estates" magazine. Here it is,
 in part cobbled together from things I've written in the past, and slightly changed from the
 version that was published in April.

 The editors wanted me to recommend a course of investment action for beneficiaries and
 their fiduciaries. To most people that means deciding how much to put into stocks and
 bonds (and which ones), and whether private equity and hedge funds should be included.
 It usually sounds easy: all you have to do is make a few simple judgments about the
 future. I decided to write a very different article: it's going to tell you how hard investing
 is, and how you can best equip yourself for the task.

 First , I think investing must be based on a firmly held belief system. What do you
 U U

 believe in, and what do you reject? Put another way, what are the principles that will
 guide you?

 For me, the starting point consists of deciding which approach to take in dealing with the
 future. That decision primarily revolves around choosing between two polar opposites:
 what I call the "I know" school and the "I don't know" school.

 Most of the investment professionals I've met over my 33 years in the industry fall
 squarely into the "I know" school. These are people who believe they can discern what
 the future holds, and in their world investing is a simple matter:

 First you decide what the economy is going to do in the period under consideration.
 Then you figure out what the impact will be on interest rates.
 From this you infer how the securities markets will perform.
 You choose the industries that will do best in that environment.
 You make judgments about how the industries' companies will fare in terms of profits.
 Based on all of this information, you pick stocks that are bound to appreciate.

 End of story. Of course, the usefulness of this approach depends entirely on people's
 ability to make these decisions correctly. What if you're wrong about the economy?
 What if you're right about the economy but wrong about its impact on a company's
 profits? Or what if you're right about profits but the valuation parameters contract, and
 thus the price? The bottom line is that the members of this school think these things are
 knowable. I know lots of people who are perpetually and constitutionally optimistic
 about both the long-term future for stocks and their ability to make these judgments
 U U

 correctly.

 On the other hand, I and most of the investors with whom I feel an affinity belong to the
 "I don't know" school. In short, (1) we feel it's impossible for anyone to know much
 about a vast number of things, (2) we consider it especially difficult to outperform by
 guessing right about the direction of the economy and the markets, (3) we spend our time
 trying to know more than the next person about specific micro situations, and (4) we think
 more about what can go wrong than about what can go right. In contrast to the "I know"
 school, people in this group are more cautious and feel a strong need for downside
 protection.

 Sticking to this approach requires some solid building blocks. One of those is
 contrarianism. Basically that means leaning away from the direction chosen by most
 others. Sell when they're euphoric, and buy when they're afraid. Sell what they love, and
 buy what they hate. In general, I think you'll find few bargains among the investments
 that everyone knows about, understands, feels comfortable with, is impressed by and is
 eager to own. Instead, the best bargains usually lie among the things people aren't aware
 of, don't fully understand, or consider arcane, unseemly or risky.

 Closely related to contrarianism is skepticism. It's a simple concept, but it has great
 potential for keeping investors out of trouble: If it sounds too good to be true, it
 probably is. That phrase is always heard after the losses have piled up - be it in
 U U

 portfolio insurance, "market neutral" funds, dot-coms, or Enron. My career in money
 management has been based on the conviction that free lunches do exist, but not for
 everyone, or where everyone's looking, or without hard work and superior skill.
 Skepticism needn't make you give up on superior risk-adjusted returns, but it should make
 you ask tough questions about the ease of accessing them.

 Thus I also advocate modest expectations. To shoot for top-quartile performance every
 year, you have to hold an idiosyncratic portfolio that exposes you to the risk of being
 outside the pack and dead wrong. It's behavior like that that leads to managers being
 carried off the field when things go poorly - and to clients losing lots of money. It's far
 more reasonable just to try for performance that's consistently a little above average.
 Even that's not easy to achieve, but if accomplished for a long period it will result in an
 outstanding track record.

 I think humility is essential, especially concerning the ability to know the future. Before
 acting on a forecast, we must ask whether there's good reason to think we're more right
 than the consensus view already embodied in prices. I think it's possible to get a
 knowledge advantage with regard to under-researched companies and securities, but only
 through hard work and skill.

 Finally, I'm a strong believer in investing defensively. That means worrying about what
 one may not know, about what can go wrong, and about losing money. If you're worried,
 you'll tend to build in greater margin for error. Worriers gain less when everything goes
 right, but they also lose less - and stay in the game - when things return to earth. All of
 Oaktree' s activities are guided more by one principle than any other: if we avoid the
 losers, the winners will take care of themselves. We're much more concerned about

 participating in a loser than we are about letting a winner get away. In my experience,
 long-term investment success can be built much more reliably on the avoidance of
 significant losses than it can on the quest for outsized gains. A high batting average, not a
 swing-for-the-fences style, offers the most dependable route to success.

 Second , I'd advise you to approach the entire subject of forecasts and forecasters
 U U

 with extreme distrust. Reduced to the absolute minimum, investing consists of just one
 thing:

 Making judgments about the future. And the future is inherently uncertain. Everyone
 looks for help in dealing with this uncertainty, and their usual recourse is to put faith in
 forecasters. How could they not? Most forecasters are highly articulate, represent
 prestigious institutions, and exude total confidence in their knowledge of the future.

 The problem, however, is that they're not often right, or at least not consistently more
 right than others. And almost never do they (or anyone else) record and assess their
 accuracy over time. Here's the way I view the forecasting game.

 There are hundreds, or more likely thousands, of people out there trying to predict the
 future, but no one has a record much better than anyone else. Given how valuable
 superior forecasts can be, recipients should wonder why anyone who was capable
 of consistently making them would distribute them gratis.

 Market prices for assets already incorporate the views of the consensus of forecasters.
 Thus holding a consensus view, even if it's right, can't help you make above-average
 returns.

 Non-consensus views can make you a lot of money, but to do so they must be right.
 Because the consensus reflects the forecasting efforts of a large number of intelligent
 and informed people, however, it's usually the closest we can get to right. In other
 words, I doubt there's anyone out there with non-consensus views that are right
 routinely.

 Most of the time, the consensus forecast extrapolates current observations. Predictions
 for a given parameter usually bear a strong resemblance to the level of the parameter
 prevailing at the time they're made. Thus predictions are often close to right when
 nothing changes radically, which is the case most of the time, but they can't be counted
 on to foretell the important sea changes. And as my friend Ric Kayne says,
 "everything important in financial history has taken place outside of two standard
 deviations." It's in predicting radical change that extraordinary profit potential exists.
 In other words, it's the surprises that have profound market impact (and thus
 U U

 profound profit potential), but there's a good reason why they're called surprises:
 it's hard to see them coming!

 Each time a radical change occurs, there's someone who predicted it, and that person
 gets to enjoy his fifteen minutes of fame. Usually, however, he wasn't right because

 of a superior ability to see the future, but rather because he regularly holds extreme
 positions (or perhaps he's a dart thrower) and this time the phenomenon went his way.
 Rarely if ever is that person right twice in a row.

 So forecasts are unlikely to help us gain an advantage, but that doesn't make people stop
 putting their faith in them. It's unsettling to realize how much in the dark we investors are
 concerning future developments. But there's one thing worse: to ignore the limits of our
 foresight. The late Stanford behaviorist Amos Tversky put it best: "It's frightening to
 think that you might not know something, but more frightening to think that, by and
 large, the world is run by people who have faith that they know exactly what's going
 on."

 Third , I think it's essential to remember that just about everything is cyclical.
 U U

 There's little I'm certain of, but these things are true: Cycles always prevail eventually.
 Nothing goes in one direction forever. Trees don't grow to the sky. Few things go to zero.
 And there's little that's as dangerous for investor health as insistence on
 extrapolating today's events into the future.

 The economy will not rise forever. Industrial trends won't continue indefinitely. The
 companies that succeed for a while often will cease to do so. Company profits won't
 increase without limitation. Investor psychology won't go in one direction forever, and
 thus neither will security prices. An investment style that does best (or worst) in one
 period is unlikely to do so again in the next.

 That was really the problem with the technology bubble. Investors were willing to pay
 prices that assumed success forever. They ignored the economic cycle, the credit cycle
 and, most importantly, the corporate life cycle. They forgot that profitability would bring
 imitation and competition, which would cut into - or eliminate - profitability. They
 overlooked the fact that the same powerful force that made their companies attractive -
 technological progress - could at some point render them obsolete. And they failed to
 consider that the investing fads in favor of these technologies, companies and stocks
 could reverse, with dire consequences.

 Fourth , investors should bear in mind the role played by timeframe. It seems
 U U

 obvious, but long-term trends need time in order to work out, and time can be limited. Or
 as John Maynard Keynes put it, "Markets can remain irrational longer than you can
 remain solvent." Whenever you're tempted to bet heavily on your conviction that a given
 phenomenon can be depended on in the long run, think about the six-foot tall man who
 drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average.

 One of the great delusions suffered in the 1990s was that "stocks always outperform." I
 agree that stocks can be counted on to beat bonds, cash and inflation, as Wharton's Prof.
 Jeremy Siegel demonstrated, but only with the qualification "in the long run." If you have
 thirty years, it's reasonable to expect equity returns to be superior to those on bonds. For
 someone with a thirty-year timeframe, the NASDAQ's decline since 2000 may turn out to
 be a matter of indifference. But it hasn't felt that way to the people holding the stocks.

 The need for time came into play in another way for the technology and
 telecommunications entrepreneurs. Many raised the money they needed for a year or two
 and proceeded to burn it up. They counted on being able to raise more later, but in 2000-02
 capital has been denied even to worthwhile ideas. Lots of companies never got the chance
 to reach profitability. They simply ran out of time.

 Fifth , you must never forget the key role played by valuation. Investment success
 U U

 doesn't come primarily from "buying good things," but rather from "buying things well"
 (and the difference isn't just grammatical). It's easy for most people to tell the
 difference between a good company and a bad one, but much harder for them to
 understand the difference between a cheap stock and an expensive one. Some of the
 biggest losses occur when people buy the stocks of great companies at too-high prices. In
 contrast, investing in terrible companies can produce huge profits if it's done at the right
 price. Over time, investors may shift their focus from dividend yield to p/e ratio, and they
 may stop looking at book value, but that doesn't mean valuation can be considered
 irrelevant.

 In the tech bubble, buyers didn't worry about whether a stock was priced too high because
 they were sure someone else would be willing to pay them more for it. Unfortunately,
 this "greater fool theory" only works until it doesn't. They also thought the technological
 developments were so great that the companies' stocks could be bought regardless of
 price. In the end, though, when newness becomes old, flaws appear and investor ardor
 cools, the only thing that matters is the stock's price . . . and it's usually much lower.

 Most shortages - whether of commodities or securities - ease when high prices inevitably
 cause supply to rise and satisfy the demand. And no fad lasts forever. Thus valuation
 eventually comes into play, and those who are holding the bag when it does are forced to
 face the music.

 Sixth , beware the quest for the simple solution. Two important forces drive the search
 U U

 for investment options: the urge to make money and the desire for help in negotiating the
 uncertain future. When a market, an individual or an investment technique produces
 impressive returns for a while, it generally attracts excessive (and unquestioning)
 devotion. I call this solution-du-jour the "silver bullet."

 Investors are always looking for it. Call it the Holy Grail or the free lunch, but everyone
 wants a ticket to riches without risk. Few people question whether it can exist, or why it
 should be available to them. At the bottom line, hope springs eternal. Thus investors
 pursued Nifty-Fifty growth stock investing in the 1970s, portfolio insurance in the '80s, and
 the technology boom of the '90s. They aligned themselves with "geniuses" they thought
 would make investing easy - be it Joe Granville, Elaine Garzarelli or Henry Blodgett.

 But the silver bullet doesn't exist. No strategy can produce high rates of return without
 risk. And nobody has all the answers; we're all just human. Markets are highly
 dynamic and, among other things, they function over time to take away the

 opportunity for unusual profits. Unskeptical belief that the silver bullet is at hand
 eventually leads to capital punishment.

 Seventh , you must be aware of what's going on around you in terms of investor
 U U

 psychology. I don't believe in the ability of forecasters to tell us where prices are going,
 but an understanding of where we are in terms of investor psychology can give us a hint.
 When investors are exuberant, as they were in 1999 and early 2000, it's dangerous. When
 the man on the street thinks stocks are a great idea and sure to produce profits, I'd watch
 out. When attitudes of this sort make for stock prices that assume the best and
 incorporate no fear, it's a formula for disaster.

 I find myself using one quote, from Warren Buffett, more often than any other: "The less
 prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater prudence with which
 we should conduct our own affairs." When others are euphoric, that puts us in danger.
 When others are frightened and pull back, their behavior makes bargains plentiful. In
 other words, what others are thinking and doing holds substantial ramifications for you.
 And that brings us full circle to the importance of contrarianism.

 * * *

 I've cataloged above the "mental arsenal" I feel is needed in the battle for investment
 success. I'll proceed below to illustrate the application of some of these concepts to two
 key asset classes: common stocks, the grand-daddy of all active investments, and hedge
 funds, a much smaller area that is in the process of attracting a lot of attention (and
 capital).

 Common stocks - Among the mantras that were repeated in the past decade, few
 U U

 received as much credence as "stocks outperform." Wharton's Professor Jeremy Siegel
 documented in his book, "Stocks for the Long Run," that equities have beaten bonds, cash
 and inflation over almost all long periods of time. In fact, his graph of the movements of
 the stock market since 1800 looks like a straight line rising from lower left to upper right.
 Evidence like this allowed people to invest heavily in the stock market while continuing
 to sleep well. Little did they know that the price gains that made them feel so sanguine
 about their positions were dramatically increasing their risk.

 I am a great believer in common stock investing, but I hold tight to a few caveats:

 Return expectations must be reasonable.
 The ride won't be without bumps.
 It's not easy to get above-market returns.

 We live in the world's most productive economy, under a very effective capitalist system,
 at a wonderful point in time. In general, it's great to own productive assets like
 companies and their shares. But occasionally, people lose track of the fact that in the
 long run, shares can't do much better than the companies that issue them. Or to

 paraphrase Warren Buffett, when people forget that corporate profits grow at 8 or 9% per
 year, they tend to get into trouble.

 It's never clear what base period makes for a relevant comparison, but between 1930 and
 1990, annual returns from stocks averaged about 10% year. Periods when they did better
 were followed by periods when they did worse. The better periods were usually caused
 by the expansion of p/e ratios, but valuations tended to return from the stratosphere, and
 in the long run, returns roughly paralleled profit growth.

 There always will be bull markets and bear markets. The bull markets will be welcomed
 warmly and unskeptically, because people will be making money. These markets will be
 propelled to great heights, usually by the rationalization that "it's different this time"; that
 productivity, technology, globalization, lower taxation - something - has permanently
 elevated the prospective return from stocks.

 The bear markets will come as a shock to the unsuspecting, demonstrating that, most of
 the time, the world doesn't change that much. For example, when you look at Siegel's
 200-year straight-line stock market graph, no hiccup is visible in 1973-74. Try telling
 that to the average equity investor, who lost half his money.

 The bottom line is that risk of fluctuation always is present. Thus stocks are risky unless
 your time frame truly allows you to live through the downs while awaiting the ups.
 Remember what Lord Keynes said about the ability of markets to remain irrational for
 long periods of time. And remember that it's possible for you to be forced to sell at the
 bottom - by emotions, competitive pressure or the need for liquidity - turning temporary
 volatility (the theoretical definition of risk) into very real permanent loss.

 In order to get more out of the ups of stocks and try to lessen the pain of the downs, most
 people turn to active management via market timing, group rotation, industry emphasis
 and stock selection. But it's just not that easy. The American Way - earnestly applying
 elbow grease - doesn't often payoff. For a model, don't think about the diligent
 paperboy on his route; think about trying to profit from flipping a coin.

 I say that because I believe most markets are relatively "efficient," and that certainly
 includes the mainstream stock market. Where large numbers of investors are aware of an
 asset's existence, have roughly equal access to information and are diligently working to
 evaluate it, the market operates to incorporate their collective interpretation of the
 information into a market price. While that price is often wrong, very few investors are
 capable of consistently knowing when it is, and by how much, and in which direction.

 The evidence is clear: most investors underperform the market. They (a) can't see the
 future, (b) make mistakes that keep them at a disadvantage, (c) accept high risk in their
 effort to distinguish themselves, and (d) spend money trying (in the form of market
 impact and transaction costs).

 Of course, there are individuals who beat the market by substantial margins, and
 they become famous. The mere fact that they attract so much attention proves how
 rare they are. (That's the meaning of the adage "it's the exception that proves the rule.")
 Adding to return without adding commensurately to risk requires rare understanding of
 how money is made and what constitutes value. Far more managers promise it than
 deliver.

 Most active managers go through times when their biases or their guesses lead them to do
 things that beat their assigned benchmark, which they attribute to their skill, and times
 that are the opposite, which they attribute to being blindsided by the unforeseeable (or to
 some defect in the benchmark). But these are two sides of the same coin, and in the long
 run the average manager adds little. Usually, active management will not allow you to
 beat the stock market, or to enjoy the fruits of the market without fully bearing its risk.

 How do I view the outlook for stocks? The period since I started managing money in
 1978 has been incredible. There were a few bad days and quarters, but through 1999
 there wasn't a single year when the S&P 500 lost 5%. From 1978 through 1999, the
 return on the S&P 500 averaged 17.6% per year. That rose to 20.6% for 1991-99 and
 28.3% for 1995-99. I doubt there's ever been a better 22-year run; to ask for more would
 be just plain piggish. But I don't think it'll be anything like that in the years just ahead,
 and of course there's been a considerable correction already.

 The observers I most respect foresee single digit average returns for common stocks, and
 I agree. Equity returns have three components: profit increase, multiple expansion and
 dividend yield. The last is minimal and the second can't be counted on from here. So that
 means we're down to the rate of increase in corporate profits, which is likely to be in
 single digits. Single digit returns would be below the historic average, but after such a
 great 22-year run, a little less wouldn't be unreasonable.

 Hedge Funds - Perhaps because they were new to the market, many who participated in
 U U

 the equity boom of the late 1990s were surprised by the suddenness with which their
 profits evaporated in the subsequent correction. Now they're looking for a new path to
 profit without risk, and many think they've found it in hedge funds. Their reasons for
 migrating include the good performance of hedge funds, especially amid the recent chaos,
 and the modest prospective returns available in the mainstream stock and bond markets.

 First, how about a definition. Generally speaking, a hedge fund is an unregulated, private
 investment partnership whose manager receives a percentage of the profits. To "hedge" is
 to intentionally include positions that can be depended on to move counter to each other
 under most circumstances, and thereby to mitigate exposure to developments in the
 environment. "Hedge fund" is a misnomer for many of today's funds, however, because
 unlike the days when the term first arose, hedging has become far from universal.

 The funds I'm interested in do hedge. They're designed to systematically take advantage
 of market inefficiencies and to capture managers' skill while limiting susceptibility to
 market fluctuations. Arbitrage, long/short, hedge and market-neutral strategies fall into

 this category. Most strive to earn returns in the teens on a consistent basis, with relative
 indifference and insensitivity to the performance of the mainstream markets. If they can
 do it, they're a great idea.

 Today, hedge funds, also sometimes called "absolute return" funds, are being promoted
 heavily by brokerage firms, mutual fund organizations and investment advisers and
 popularized by the media. They are in the process of becoming the next investment fad.
 And there's good reason why they should. Especially given the weak competition I see
 coming from mainstream investment media like stocks, an appropriate mantra for the
 coming decade might be "low double digits ain't bad." If you can identify investment
 managers who possess enough skill to consistently deliver such returns, you should hire
 them. And there's a better-than-average chance they'll be found in the hedge fund arena,
 where the managers get to share in the profits.

 However, a few caveats are in order:

 Expectations still must be reasonable. Investors must realize that very few
 managers are truly capable of earning before-fee returns of 12% or 15% steadily and
 with low correlation to the mainstream markets. Anything approaching 20% is
 Herculean.

 Most returns really won't be "absolute." I have seen lots of "hedge funds" and
 "market neutral funds" drop precipitously. That's because it's unusual for portfolio
 returns to be entirely divorced from their environment. "Zero correlation" with the
 market is rarely attainable; "low correlation" may have to suffice.

 Money flows will play a big role. In general, the good records have been built on
 small amounts of money. And those records will attract large amounts of money.
 There are several consequences.

 First, records simply may not be capable of extrapolation. To handle more money, a
 manager may have to invest faster, reduce selectivity, put more dollars into each
 position, put on a larger number of positions, broaden the fund's range of
 activities, and/or add new staff members. All of these can have negative
 implications for returns.

 Second, many of the best managers with skill and discipline are already closed to new
 U U

 money, or will reach the point when they are. Thus in the extreme, as Groucho Marx
 would have put it, "I would never invest my money with anyone who'd take it."

 And third, when there's too much money in an area, even funds that are closed can be
 affected. Long-Term Capital Management found others emulating its trades and
 eventually lost its opportunity because too much money had piled into its niches.

 The wrong people will get money. The rush to invest in an area gives money to
 managers who shouldn't get it. When the best are closed, the rest will be funded.

 Second-string managers will split off from established groups and get money based on
 their old fund's record (regardless of how much of it they were responsible for). Thus,
 as the amount of money in the area rises, the average quality of the managers may
 fall.

 Fees can eat up skill. When the demand for funds outstrips supply, fund managers
 have the ability to raise fees and thereby appropriate for themselves a larger portion of
 their funds' returns.

 Disappointments will be many. Due to the factors enumerated above, the next few
 years will see many investors fail to get what they hoped for . . . as usual. One of my
 favorite sayings is "what the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the
 end." Over the last 20-30 years, a few talented hedge fund managers built successful
 records with relatively small amounts of capital. I believe the period ahead will see
 lots of people raise more than they should; thus it will have to be navigated with care.

 All investment trends run a high risk of being carried to extremes. (For a shining
 example, take a look at venture capital in 2000.) Despite this, I think absolute return
 investing deserves your attention. But you should commit only after a lot of investigation
 and with your eyes wide open. Remember, there is no such thing as a silver bullet.

 * * *

 The main thing I've tried to indicate here is that investing isn't easy. Or better put,
 superior investing isn't easy. It's easy to do average. In fact, there are vehicles - index
 U U

 funds - that exist for the explicit purpose of delivering average performance at low cost,
 and they are completely capable of doing so.

 But most people want to do better than the average. They want higher returns, and
 achieving higher returns without assuming commensurately higher risk is the hard part.

 It's easy to make guesses about the future but hard to be consistently more right in those
 guesses than your fellow investor, and thus hard to consistently outperform. Doing the
 same thing others do exposes you to fluctuations that in part are exaggerated by their
 actions and your own. It's certainly undesirable to be part of the herd when it stampedes
 off the cliff, but it takes rare skill, insight and discipline to avoid it.

 The thing I'm surest of is that the solution doesn't lie in making guesses about the big-
 picture future. Rather, it lies with investors who possess skill, insight and discipline.
 There are times when they'll underperform - times like 1998-99, when aggressiveness
 was rewarded far more than caution. But if you can find those people, you should stick
 with them. For me, the laundry list of their desired characteristics is clear:

 adherence to the "I don't know" school of thought
 contrarianism, skepticism, modest expectations, humility and defensiveness
 eschewing of macro forecasts

 attention to the cyclical nature of things
 consciousness of timeframe
 concentration on valuation
 disdaining the hunt for the silver bullet
 awareness of prevailing investor psychology

 You can go with opinions about the future. Everyone's got them, and what they call for in
 terms of investment behavior usually is obvious. In other words, the "I know" school
 makes investing sound easy - although in my opinion it's not often right.

 Or you can join me in the "I don't know" school, where you must:

 face up to the uncertainty that surrounds the macro future;
 concentrate on avoiding pitfalls;
 invest in a few areas of specialization based on in-depth analysis, conservatively
 estimated tangible values and modest purchase prices; and
 be prepared for returns that trail the risk-takers when markets are hot.

 This may be the less common path, and certainly the less rosy, but it's the one I'd
 much rather count on for success in the long run.


Memo: Quo Vadis?.

Leon Uris turned the question "Quo Vadis?" into a book title. Everyone wants to know.
 Where do we go from here? What's in store for the market?

 . . . for all the drama, yesterday's seesaw trading failed again to give investors the
 one thing they needed most: a clear picture of where the stock market is headed.
 Many on Wall Street had been hoping for some kind of resolution yesterday -
 either a significant drop that would wash out the selling, or a significant recovery.
 Instead, stocks bounced in both directions, as optimists battled the pessimists.
 (Wall Street Journal, July 24, 2002)

 I include this paragraph because it communicates a great deal in just a few words. It
 makes clear how much investors hunger for an indication of what lies ahead. It shows
 how inconclusive anyone day's evidence can be. And, most importantly, to me it hints at
 the sheer folly of this quest for an omen. There's no such thing as a conclusive sign,
 and there never will be. The future will always remain a mystery - and this is even
 more true for short-term fluctuations than for long-term trends. Nothing in the
 market's movement one day tells us anything about what it'll do the next. Most of
 the time people will conclude that they have no idea what lies ahead. And once in a
 while they'll feel they do (as in 1999) and likely be wrong.

 I know my views on the market's direction aren't worth betting on. But while I can't tell
 you what lies ahead, perhaps I can be of service in my usual way, by marshalling the
 arguments on both sides and giving you my take on them.

 Starting Point
 U

 This attempt to provide insight into the market's future course should be understood in
 light of a few caveats. The most important are these:

 First, we are living through the most extreme boom-bust episode of my 33-year
 investment career and, I think, the most extreme since the Roaring Twenties and
 subsequent market crash. The magnitude and craziness of the bull market and tech-
 media-telecom bubble of the 1990s dwarfed every up-leg I've seen, and the correction that
 started 28 months ago already ranks with the greatest down-legs. Thus all bets for
 "normalcy" are off. A huge decline like we've had doesn't necessarily create bargains if
 preceded by a huge advance.

 Second, no one knows what the future holds, especially in the short term. The
 movements of markets are primarily determined not by physical laws, but by the
 reaction of emotional humans to developments in their environment. These
 reactions are well beyond accurate prediction. The fraternity of would-be forecasters
 consists of people who've been right once or twice, giving them credibility, and people
 who've never been right. None of them has a high probability of being right this time.

 Third, the market's "observable historic patterns" (a) are very inconsistent and (b) have
 been derived from a small number of observations over a period of just a century or so
 under widely varying circumstances. Thus these historic patterns are of very limited
 relevance in predicting this market's next move.

 Last, I want to admit that, as usual, my analysis is likely to overweight the negatives and
 the rebuttals to the positives. I've been cautious for a long time - in fact, I don't
 remember ever having written a bullish piece on stocks - and this memo is unlikely to be
 any different. There are "horses for courses," and I admit it: I'm usually going to cost you
 money on the upside.

 Taken together these caveats mean that very little trust, if any, should be put in any
 market prediction - especially mine.

 Positive Arguments
 U

 One of the strongest arguments for buying now cites the market's departure from one of
 those historic patterns referred to above. The New York Times stated it clearly on July 21:

 Using history as a guide, the stock market should be higher now than it was a year
 ago. Since 1948, six months after a recession's trough, stocks have jumped an
 average of 24 percent from the previous year. But at the end of June, six months
 from the recession's probable end, stocks were down 18% from last year. That
 means the market has underperformed its typical post-recessionary move by
 40 percentage points. [Emphasis added]

 Supporting this is the widespread and not unreasonable belief that the economy is no
 longer in decline and a modest recovery is underway. While it is difficult to identify
 many pockets of great strength in the economy, there is no evidence that the aggregates
 are still trending down.

 Buttressing the economic outlook are recent movements in currency exchange rates. The
 dollar has stopped appreciating relative to other currencies and in fact has moved 10%
 lower. This means, for example, that it now takes fewer euros to buy a dollar and more
 dollars to buy a euro. Thus, everything being equal, U.S. goods are now cheaper than
 foreign goods. This should serve to increase U.S. manufacturers' sales to Americans and
 foreigners alike.

 The improving environment seems to have taken the downward pressure off profits and
 slowed the flow of earnings disappointments. As reported by the Wall Street Journal on
 July 22, "Nobody wants to hear it, but companies are beating their numbers again . . . Of
 the 208 companies from the S&P 500 that have reported [midyear results] so far, 58%, or
 120 companies, earned more per share than analysts had estimated . . . Only 14%, or 29
 companies, have missed estimates." (Bear in mind, however, that "earnings ahead of
 estimates" is not necessarily the same thing as "earnings ahead of last year." This data
 could simply mean that the comparisons are against estimates that had become too
 pessimistic.)

 I see technical indicators that are encouraging. There are a number of signs that optimism
 is being wrung out of the market and fear is replacing greed. For example, when the Dow
 fell 390 points on Friday, July 19, the NYSE saw:

 new lows outnumber new highs by almost fourteen to one (386 vs. 28),
 more than three times as many stocks decline as advance (2,467 vs. 766),
 all of the 30 Dow Industrial stocks decline, and
 an all-time record number of shares change hands (2.63 billion shares, only to be
 exceeded in the rally of July 24).

 In addition, there have been several days this year when 80% or 90% of the trading
 volume took place on downticks, and cash outflows from equity mutual funds have been
 substantial.

 Certainly investor behavior has turned bearish. Selling sometimes seems indiscriminate.
 Every better performing group gets its turn in the barrel. The value stocks that
 outperformed for the last two years are sharing the pain of the growth stocks. It seems
 there's no place to hide. Investors complain that they can't take it and have started to
 throw in the towel. Maximum panic usually coincides with minimum prices. Thus
 these may be signs that capitulation, the exhaustion of selling, and a bottom are near.

 Negative Arguments
 U

 On the other hand - as any good politician would say - there are counter-arguments to
 many of the above, and a large number of additional negatives to be considered.

 In my opinion, just as the strongest positive is seen in the failure of the market to reflect
 the ending of the recession, I think the counter to that - and the strongest negative - lies
 in the matter of valuation. In short, the fact that stocks are down since the end of the
 recession, and down a great deal from their peak, doesn't mean they're cheap. In
 fact, most rumination on the market's future direction touches on the correction, investor
 psychology and the economy, but not whether stocks are rich or cheap, always a difficult
 subject to plumb.

 The impact of a decline must be gauged in light of its starting point. Stocks ended up
 cheap after the S&P's 1973-74 decline of 48%, but that's because the average P/E ratio
 started in the high teens and ended in single digits. Thus this correction's 45% decline
 doesn't necessarily have equal import, given that it started and ended with an average P/E
 ratio above 20!

 Of course, a case continues to be made that stock valuations are attractive (or, more
 typically, "are not unattractive") because of the low level of interest rates. Low rates raise
 the discounted present value of a given stream of future cash flows, and they reduce the
 competition that stocks face from bonds. As I see it, much of the case for the fairness
 of valuations today rests on the view that low prospective returns on stocks are
 reasonable given the low prospective returns on fixed income instruments. Maybe
 this makes stocks cheap at today's P/E ratios, but I don't consider it much of a
 positive. Further, in order for interest rates to continue to render stocks attractive, they
 must stay low. But low rates presuppose low levels of economic growth, demand for
 capital, and inflation. Are these the arguments on which to build a bullish case?

 There's also a strong counter-argument regarding economic recovery. As stated by Jan
 Hatzius, the senior economist at Goldman Sachs, it goes as follows:

 Unfortunately, the effect [on the economy] of the stock market's sorry
 performance has yet to be felt. . . Normally, when you get a big stock market
 setback, consumers have a harder time getting credit. But there are more
 alternative sources of credit for consumers now and the Fed is very eager to keep
 access to credit good. . . Once consumers realize that the stock market will no
 longer bolster their savings, they will rein in spending and start setting aside more
 income. That will be a big negative for consumer spending, the only area of the
 economy that has been strong. (NY Times, July 21, 2002)

 Certainly with about $7 trillion of equity value having been erased since the
 market's peak in March 2000, investors are sure to be feeling a lot poorer, and thus
 there is reason to question the longevity of strong consumer spending. Bulls often
 touted the "wealth effect" in 1998-99, but we hear much less about it these days. Yet
 concern that consumers will cut spending is one of the reasons there is fear of a double-
 dip recession.

 And the negative ramifications aren't likely to be limited to consumers. Corporations will
 feel their share of pain from the market's decline. First, they may have to come up with
 cash for contributions to pension funds, and there may come a time when they will no
 longer be able to augment income with "actuarially assumed" investment returns that
 aren't occurring. Second, lower asset values may shed doubt on the billions of dollars of
 acquisition goodwill now present on balance sheets. Third, the prevalence of out-of-the-
 money options - and the negative recent experience with them - may make employees
 clamor for cash compensation, with negative implications for net income and cash flow.
 In this environment, corporations may have a lower propensity toward capital spending.

 Governments at all levels also are likely to see their revenues decline. The Federal
 government will run deficits, (the end of which was one of the factors lifting the market
 in the late 1990s), and the states and cities will cut back on spending, with a retarding
 effect on the economy.

 If both individuals and institutions have less cash to invest and less willingness to part
 with it, our reliance on foreign capital is likely to become clearer. But with foreign
 investors no longer feeling they can count on the dollar to be worth ever-increasing
 amounts of yen or euros, inflows of those currencies for dollar investments are less
 dependable. The implications for security prices and capital formation are obviously
 negative. And questions about our system's integrity and transparency can't help.

 Beyond the fundamentals of economy and valuation, there are a vast number of
 psychological factors to be considered:

 Of course, cynicism prompted by corporate misdeeds tops the list. Who'll invest in
 the face of the corruption at "all these companies"? How many investors realize that
 the dishonest acts have been limited to a handful of firms? Or that there is a
 difference between aggressive accounting and fraud? Who'll believe even the
 simplest of management's statements about cash in the bank or the next quarter's
 earnings? (By the way, I think the recent exposure itself can be counted on to
 produce better corporate behavior. Already companies are scrambling to show they're
 clean in terms of accounting, governance, and executive compensation.)

 Certainly the belief in the inevitability of stock market profits has been dispelled.
 Who still believes that "stocks can be counted on to beat bonds and cash"? (Okay,
 nothing has changed regarding the long run, but investors have learned that living
 through a negative short run isn't that much fun.) And who still believes that the
 "efficient market" can be relied on to price stocks right? For these reasons, I think
 millions who were suckered into investing without the necessary expertise or
 awareness of risk will drop out for a while.

 Likewise, the 1999 mantra of buying on dips has been laid to rest. Those who tried it
 in the last 28 months have paid a high price for investing on autopilot, and they are
 unlikely to rise up and counter the bears' selling any time soon. Sure, stocks will rise
 again, but few of the burned investors are worried about missing the first ten percent.

 The leaders that people counted on to make them rich in 1998-99 are gone from the
 scene, and no one's likely to win investors' confidence anytime soon. Alan
 Greenspan's words no longer have the same soothing effect; now he's blamed for
 fostering too much liquidity, too great a market bubble, and then too-high interest
 rates. Likewise, investors have learned painfully that bullish statements from analysts
 and strategists precede up markets and down markets alike. Without "trusted
 U U

 advisers" they can count on, investors won't be as quick to jump aboard the next
 bandwagon.

 Macro fears still loom in the background, and they gain more credence when people
 feel less good about things. The threat of further terrorism, unending violence in the
 Middle East, nuclear and biological weapons in the hands of rogue states, and even
 Japanese-style deflation - none of these fears can be put to rest conclusively.

 Of course, like almost everything else, these psychological factors have two sides.
 They're negatives to the extent they contribute to fear and skepticism and thus
 discourage buyers. But they're positives if they induce panic selling and take prices
 low enough to form a bottom.

 Lastly, I think we all should worry about Washington. Where's the political payoff
 today? It lies in decrying corruption and calling for extreme reforms. The backlash
 against corporate malfeasance I cited in "Learning From Enron" certainly threatens to
 become a witch-hunt, raising great risk of tampering with a system that's essentially
 sound. Regardless of whether properly motivated or not, the government should not be in
 the business of codifying rules in areas such as accounting and compensation.

 Foreseeing second-order consequences is difficult, and particularly so for politicians and
 regulators. Not only are they often unknowable, but also they exist in the long term,
 whereas people in politics are governed by short-term considerations - like getting re-
 elected. Capping the price of natural gas was popular, but we saw too late that it keeps
 people from drilling. Controlling rents seemed desirable, but no one foresaw that it
 would discourage landlords from building housing and renters from moving out. There's
 little I'm sure of, but I do believe that if the government establishes rules and procedures
 in areas that should be the province of the market, (a) there will be unintended
 consequences, and (b) the rules will be much harder to correct than they were to enact.

 * * *

 I believe strongly that things will not get worse forever. We'll muddle through. Given
 the retarding effects of lobbyists and competing political interests, the government
 probably won't do anything terribly destructive. The economy will come back. Most
 companies will be shown to make real profits, and their securities will turn out to have
 value. In other words, the financial world won't come to an end.

 As for short-term direction, no one knows which way the market's going to go, or
 whether the declines to date are enough to offset the negatives and make this a
 bottom. Do the declines to date and the economic recovery that's underway mean we're
 at the bottom? Or do the abject disillusionment that investors have suffered and the still-
 high P/E ratios mean it won't be reached for a while? The answer rests on the actions of
 investors in the coming weeks and months, and that truly defies prediction.

 When I think about whether the brouhaha over corporate misdeeds will soon die down, I
 worry about the following:

 When the replacement auditors show up at each former Arthur Andersen client, they'll
 be bringing their fine-tooth combs. They'll have every incentive to find something
 wrong in the previous accounting and absolutely no incentive to say, "Everything was
 just fine."

 With or without suggestions from new auditors, every management team will be
 motivated to amend its accounting. First, they'll want to join the holier-than-thou
 parade. Second, they know choosing a more aggressive accounting treatment will
 leave them open to criticism or worse. Last, they are likely to engage in the usual
 deck clearing to put costs and restatements behind them, prodded, in particular, by the
 requirement that they certify financial statements starting in mid-August. The sum of
 this may result in months of additional disclosures and restatements.

 More virtuous accounting practices, including specifics like the expensing of option
 grants, are sure to mean lower reported profits than otherwise would have been
 reported. You might say investors will look beyond these numbers and perceive the
 lower quantity of earnings to be offset by the higher quality. I doubt it. I think the
 first-year shift to this new regime could make companies seem generally less
 profitable.

 Politicians will keep battling to show who's less tolerant of corruption. Democrats
 will pick on Republicans for their closeness to business, and Republicans will strive to
 show they're just as tough as Democrats. I think this is overwhelmingly likely to last
 through the November elections.

 The media will throw gasoline on the fire as always, rising up in indignation
 whenever they detect a sensational story. The stories are too good, the targets are too
 rich and attractive, and the rewards for resisting sensationalism are few and far
 between. Reporters who were pro-investment and pro-free market just a few years
 ago now see the greatest gains in calling for scalps. And I can just hear the talking
 heads on CNN and MSNBC saying, "I never liked the stock market anyway."

 When I put it all together, I come down, as usual, on the cautious side. I'm not confident
 that the excesses of the bull market of 1982-1999 and the enormous tech bubble could
 have been corrected in just 28 months. Stocks' current swoon need not go on without end,
 but I see fundamental, valuation and psychological problems that will take time to fix.
 Maybe there'll be some lackluster years rather than a continuous collapse. It's said the
 investors who were burned in the excesses of the 1920s didn't return to the market until
 1955 - or was it their kids?

 I doubt there'll be a massive revival of the popularity of stocks any time soon, and thus I
 wouldn't count on a quick return to performance in line with history. More than ever, I
 think non-market-derived, skill-based value added - that is, alpha, not beta - will

 hold the key to investment performance. Because owners of capital may not be able
 to count on a tailwind like we enjoyed in the 1980s and 1990s, managers with great
 skill remain the strongest hope. And in this climate, I'd rather bet on risk control
 than risk bearing as the route to superior results.


Memo: Etorre's Wisdom.

My memos evoke a wide variety of reactions. One I hear most often is "where do these
 ideas come from?" This memo will serve as a good example: it was inspired by a ride I
 took this summer with my son Andrew. That, in turn, reminded me of a clipping that's
 been sitting in my files since the early 1970s.

 The newspaper article, entitled "The laws that rule frustrating lives," enumerates a dozen
 principles that we suspect are at work on our bad days. Here are a few examples:

 Everyone knows the first, Murphy's Law: If anything can go wrong, it will.
 Fewer people, however, are conversant with O'Toole's Commentary: Murphy was an
 optimist.
 There's a lot of truth in The Unspeakable Law: As soon as you mention something, if
 it's good, it goes away; if it's bad, it happens.
 Every parent of a toddler has seen The Law of Selective Gravity in action: An object
 will fall so as to do the most damage.
 But the one that's least controvertible is Etorre's Observation: The other line moves
 faster.

 While I was driving with Andrew he asked, as fifteen-year-olds are prone to, "Dad, why
 do you always have to drive in the slow lane? Why don't you switch to that one; it's
 moving faster?" As I wound up for a lengthy explanation, I recognized in his comment
 the greatest imaginable metaphor for investor behavior.

 What is it like to drive on our crowded highways?

 We often sit there, frustrated, watching cars whiz by in the adjacent lane.
 However, if we change to the faster lane, it slows down just as the one we left speeds
 up.
 Sometimes a lane-jumper shoots past us, but we know deep down that drivers who
 constantly shift from one lane to another are unlikely to reach a given point much
 before we do.

 I think there are many ways in which the experience of drivers on a crowded highway is
 similar to that of investors. I'll touch on them below, and on what I see as the reasons
 (and the lessons).

 Finding Your Way on an Efficient Highway - Some people find it difficult to understand
 U U

 the concept of efficient markets, and how efficiency makes it hard for investors to
 outperform. It's really for this that a crowded highway is the perfect metaphor.

 Most drivers share the same goal: we want to get there as quickly as possible, with safety.
 A few people drive like slowpokes, sacrificing speed for excessive safety, and a few
 others are maniacs who keep the pedal down without a care. The vast majority of us,
 however, conduct ourselves reasonably but really would like to cut our travel time.

 As we drive along, we see from time to time that another lane is moving faster than ours.
 Just as obviously, however, we know that jumping to that lane is unlikely to bring much
 net improvement.

 And that's where the metaphor comes in. If I could switch to the faster lane while
 everything remained unchanged, doing so would cut my travel time. But everyone sees
 which lane is moving fastest, and if everyone switches into that lane, that will make
 it the slow lane. Thus the collective actions of drivers alter the environment. In fact,
 they create the environment.

 In April 2001, I wrote the following in "Safety First . . ."

 Over the years, performance has constantly improved in areas like golf. That's
 because while the participants develop new tools and techniques, the ball never
 adjusts and the course doesn't fight back. But investing is dynamic, and the
 playing field is changing all the time. The actions of other investors will affect the
 return on your strategy. Just as nature abhors a vacuum, markets act to eliminate
 an excessive return.

 What I meant is that, unless the Greens Committee changes the layout, a golf course is a
 static environment. The actions of golfers don't change the game. If I try a certain
 approach to a hole - or even if everyone does - that won't alter the effectiveness of the
 approach.

 In contrast, highways - like markets - are dynamic environments. What the other
 participants do on a given day goes a long way toward determining what will and will not
 work for us. When people flock to the fast lane, they slow it down. And with the lane
 they left suddenly less crowded, it speeds up. This is how the "efficient market" in
 U

 travel acts to equalize the speed of the various lanes, and thus to render ineffective
 most attempts at lane-picking. Efficient securities markets work the same way to
 eliminate excess returns . U

 Everyone knows what has worked well to date. Just as they know which lane has been
 moving fastest, they know which securities have been performing best. Most people also
 understand there is no guarantee that past performance will continue. What is a little less
 widely understood, however, is that past returns influence investor behavior, which
 in turn alters future performance.

 While investors have the option of switching into the securities that have been performing
 best, most know the outperformance isn't likely to last forever. It takes a little more

 insight, however, for them to comprehend that their switching will be, in itself, among the
 things that change performance. When people switch to the better-performing group,
 their buying bids up the prices of those securities. That bidding-up prolongs the
 outperformance somewhat, but it also reduces the prospective return and increases the
 probability of a correction. (The higher the price you pay, the worse your prospects for
 profit. This seems like a simple concept, but it's forgotten once in a while - as it was in
 the tech bubble.)

 At the same time, the switchers will sell worse-performing securities to finance their
 move into the hot group. That will lower the prices of the laggards, and at some point
 they'll be so cheap that they become destined to outperform.

 For How Long Will the Fast Lane Go Fast? - The pedal-to-the-metal momentum crowd
 U U

 saw the tech and telecom stocks moving fastest in 1999 and extrapolated their
 outperformance to infinity. In essence, they assumed one lane could go faster forever. Of
 course, they ignored the fact that the stocks were being bid up to prices from which
 collapse would be inevitable. They also failed to notice that the "slow lane" value stocks
 they were selling would eventually become primed for acceleration.

 How long can outperformance continue? How long can one lane be the fastest, one
 strategy be the best? Clearly, there's no rule. The momentum players behind the bubble
 proved with certainty that fast rising stocks will keep rising until they stop. They also
 proved, to their surprise, that few people are capable of getting off just as the upward
 trajectory peaks out.

 As I've said many times, anything can work for a while, but nothing can work forever.
 Sometimes large cap works, and sometimes small cap works. Sometimes domestic
 works, and sometimes international works. Sometimes buying leaders works, and
 sometimes buying laggards works. Wall Street has pushed out some incredible gibberish
 over the years, but nothing quite like that embodied in another yellowed clipping from
 1976 (maybe this is why there's no more Loeb, Rhoades):

 A continuing pattern of consolidation and group rotation suggests that increasing
 emphasis should be placed on buying stocks on relative weakness and selling
 them on relative strength. This would be a marked contrast to some earlier
 periods where emphasizing relative strength proved to be effective.

 I guess that's a fancy way to say that sometimes the stocks that have been doing best
 continue to do best, and sometimes the stocks that have been doing worst start to do best.
 (Really, I don't make this stuff up.)

 The Tactics Others Adopt - The fact that crowded highways are efficient allocators of
 U U

 space doesn't mean people don't try to beat them. How often do we see the guy in the
 souped-up '67 Mustang careen back and forth just in front of us, changing lanes every
 minute and cutting off half the cars on the road? But does he get there any faster?
 Should he expect to?

 Of course, the analogy to investing holds beautifully. Knowing which lane to drive in has
 nothing to do with which lane has been going fastest. To chart the best course, one must
 know which one will go fastest. As usual, outperforming comes down to seeing the
 future better than others, which few drivers on crowded highways can do.

 So half the time the lane-jumper moves into a fast-moving lane that keeps going fast, and
 half the time into one that's just about to slow down. And the slow lane he leaves is as
 likely to speed up as it is to stay slow. Thus the "expected value" of his lane changing is
 close to zero. And he uses extra gas in his veering and accelerating, and he bears a higher
 risk of getting into an accident. Thus the returns from lane changing appear modest and
 undependable - even more so in a risk-adjusted sense.

 There are lots of investors in our heavily populated markets who believe (erroneously, in
 my opinion) they can see the future, and thus that they can get ahead through market
 timing and short-term trading. Most markets prove to be efficient, however, and most of
 the time these machinations don't work.

 Still, investors keep guessing at which lane on the investment highway will go fastest.
 They are encouraged by the successes they recall and the gains they dream of. But their
 recollection tends to overstate their ability by exaggerating correct moves and ignoring
 mistakes. Or as Don Meredith once said on Monday Night Football, "they don't make
 them the way they used to, but then again they never did."

 So most investors go on trying to time markets and pick stocks. When it works, they
 credit the efficacy of their strategy and their skill in executing it. When it doesn't, they
 blame exogenous variables and the foolishness of other market participants. And they
 keep on trying.

 In the ultimate form of capital punishment, the hyper-tactician - on the road or in the
 market-stands a good chance of repeatedly jumping out of the thing that hasn't worked
 just as it's about to start working, and into the thing that has been working moments
 before it stops.

 This is why it's often the case that the performance of investors in a volatile fund is
 worse than the performance of the fund itself. On its face this seems illogical . . . until
 you think of the unlucky lane-jumper described just above. People often jump into a hot
 fund toward the end of a period of good performance, when overvaluation in the market
 niche (or hubris on the manager's part) has set the stage for a fall, and when the great
 results have brought in so much money that it's impossible to keep finding enough
 attractive investments. By the time a hot fund falls, it's usually much larger than it was
 when it rose, and thus a lot more money is lost on a 10% drop than used to be made on a
 10% rise. It's in this way that the collective performance of a fund's investors can be
 worse than that of the fund.

 There are prominent examples of money managers who started small, made 25% a year
 for 25 years, got famous and grew huge, and then took a 50% loss on $20 billion. I often

 wonder whether their investors enjoyed any cumulative profit over the funds' entire lives.
 U U

 Just as lane-jumping is risky on the road, following the hot trend is risky in the
 investment world.

 Isn't There a Way to Make Good Time? - If crowded highways are truly efficient, and the
 U U

 fast lane is destined to slow down, is there no way to do better than others?

 My answer is predictable: find the inefficiencies. Go where others won't. Do the things
 others avoid. We all have our tricks on the road. We'll take the route with the hazards
 that scare away others - after we've made sure we know the way around them. Or we'll
 take the little-known back road. We'll go through the industrial area, leaving the
 beautified route to the masses. Or we'll drive at night, while others prefer the daylight.

 All of these things are analogous to the search for inefficiency in investment markets. At
 Oaktree we invest in things that others find frightening or unseemly - like junk bonds,
 bankruptcies and non-performing mortgages. We spend our time in market niches that
 others ignore - like busted and international convertibles, and distressed debt bought for
 the purpose of obtaining control over companies. We try to identify opportunities before
 others do - like European high yield bonds and power infrastructure. And we do things
 that others find perilous, but we approach them in ways that cut the risk - like investing in
 emerging markets without making sink-or-swim bets on the direction of individual
 countries' economies and stock markets.

 I continue to believe there are ways to earn superior returns without commensurate risk,
 but they're usually found outside the mainstream. A shortcut that everyone knows
 U

 about is an absolute oxymoron , as is one that's found where the roads are well marked
 U

 and mapped. The route that's little known, unattractive or out of favor may not be the one
 that's most popular or least controversial. But it's the one that's most likely to help you
 come out ahead.


Memo: Returns and How They Get That Way.

"Where do babies come from?" When I was a kid, this was the subject of a great many
 jokes, and the answer was always the same: "The stork brings them." Now it's fifty years
 later, and no one jokes about the stork any more. Maybe that's because today's kids learn
 the real answer so much sooner than we did.

 Where do equity returns come from? Fewer people ask this question than asked about
 the stork fifty years ago, . . . and even fewer have the answer. I'll give you one hint: it's
 not from the stork.

 The Source of Equity Returns

 In the late 1990s, stock prices exploded upward, along with the number of people buying
 them. And as long as stock prices rose, the new investors felt they knew all they had to
 about where equity returns came from: They came from rising prices. And surely you
 could depend on prices to rise.

 What was it that investors thought would cause a given stock's price to rise?

 It's been performing like a rocket.
 It's the subject of a brokerage house recommendation, a TV or magazine story, or
 some chat room hype.
 Someone (I don't remember who) is recommending it.
 It's selling below an analyst's target price.
 Other people can be counted on to buy it, taking it ever higher.
 In fact, investors have to buy it, because money will keep flowing to stocks and
 people can't risk omitting this one from their portfolios.
 Or maybe it'll become part of the S&P 500, and indexers and closet indexers will have
 to add it to their portfolios.

 As always, however, the post mortem is more thorough than the simplistic thought
 process that preceded it, and the results are a lot less pleasant. Dreams of ever-rising
 prices aren't enough. Now we know there has to be a reason why prices should rise.

 Today, cooler heads point out that long-term equity returns are driven by dividends and
 earnings growth. "Huh?" say the people who entered the market in the late '90s.

 I remember having a spirited discussion on this topic with my father in the late 1960s. I
 came home from the University of Chicago filled with the notion that the value of a share
 of stock is the present value of its future dividends. "Baloney," my father said, "no one
 buys stocks for the dividends; they buy them for appreciation." "But what makes them
 appreciate?" I asked. We never have reached agreement on this matter.

 I think we were both right and both wrong. Certainly in a real-world sense, people don't
 buy stocks for dividends. Dividends provided a small portion of the total return on stocks
 in the 1960s and far less in the 1990s. Yes, most people buy stocks for appreciation. But
 what causes appreciation? There has to be an underlying process at work. We're in
 trouble if all we can say is "we buy stocks in the hope they'll go up, and they'll go up
 if new buyers are willing to pay more than the last price." To explain what'll make
 the buyers pay more than the last price, we either have to (1) identify what I call an
 underlying process or (2) fall back on the bromides listed above that led investors off the
 cliff in the 1990s.

 The "underlying process" has to be related to financial parameters. By that I mean the
 asset values and/or cash flows must be recognized as being worth more than the last price
 paid. That's what causes appreciation.

 Because so few stocks are bought today for asset values, we essentially can disregard
 them. The vast majority of stocks are bought for the stream of earnings the companies
 produce.

 But how do those earnings affect investors - get through to investors - if not in the form
 of dividends? That's the question that drove me in the 1960s. It almost verges on
 metaphysical. If a company has great earnings but those earnings aren't ever paid out in
 dividends, are they still of value to investors? If it makes a bunch of money but just
 hoards it, or reinvests it in new products and facilities that generate future earnings that
 also are not paid out, in what way are its profits of value to investors? That's kind of like
 the old question, "if a tree falls in the forest but there's no one around to hear it, does it
 still make noise?"

 There are two possible answers:

 Eventually, earnings must be paid out. Common sense tells us that, sooner or later,
 every company will run out of good reinvestment opportunities, and the cash will then
 go to dividends, or to stock buy-backs, which have the same effect but better tax
 treatment. (Of course, the record suggests that when they run out of good
 reinvestment opportunities, companies often prefer bad reinvestment opportunities to
 giving the money to the shareholders.)

 Alternatively, if cash builds up in a company and its stock doesn't rise to reflect the
 buildup but instead languishes "too cheap," someone will bid the stock up in order to
 take over the company. This is economics at work: the value of every asset is the

 present value of the cash flows it will produce in the future, and eventually the market
 will price the asset to reflect that value, because there are ways to reap it.

 So What Makes Stocks Worth More?

 The equation defining the price of a share of stock is a very simple one:

 P = E x P/E

 The price of a share of stock is equal to the earnings per share times the ratio of the stock
 price to the earnings. On one hand this explains how prices are set, and on the other hand
 it's just tautological: divide both sides of the equation by E and you get P/E = P/E. Even I
 can't argue with that one.

 This gives rise to another simple equation:

 ∆P = ∆E + ∆P/E

 Change in price is powered by one or more of the following factors:

 increased earnings eventually are turned into increased dividends,
 the undistributed earnings are reinvested to power future earnings growth, and/or
 the likely stream of future earnings comes to be viewed as being worth more than the
 last price paid, causing an increase in the P/E ratio.

 "Growth investors" pursue companies whose earnings are growing the fastest. As per the
 equation, if the P/E ratio holds, earnings growth will be translated directly into stock price
 appreciation. And if there's an increase in investor recognition of the company's growth
 potential, the P/E ratio can expand as well, producing appreciation at a rate that exceeds
 the rate of earnings growth.

 "Value investors," on the other hand, invest primarily in companies where (1) earnings,
 while perhaps lacking rapid trendline growth potential, are temporarily depressed and
 likely to rebound, and/or (2) the stock's price is unduly low relative to even the low-
 growth earnings, and thus the P/E ratio can be expected to expand.

 Any way you slice it, the truth is that changes in a stock's price will be determined
 by changes in the earnings per share and changes in the multiple at which investors
 value those earnings. So those who want to predict the movement of a stock's price, or
 of the whole market, have to predict those two things. To get to total return, you simply
 add the dividend yield to the rate of price appreciation.

 The Outlook for Equity Returns

 Clearly, equity returns primarily come from price appreciation. And the dominant
 consideration in long-term appreciation is earnings growth. Why do I say "long term
 appreciation"? Because even though P/E ratios jump around much more in the short run
 than do earnings, they tend to move within relatively fixed boundaries and, in the long
 run, their fluctuations should cancel out.

 The simple view - which I tend to take - is that P/E ratios reached ridiculous levels in the
 1990s and now, even after significant price declines, still are higher in absolute terms than
 they were at many previous market tops. Thus, you can assume that P/E ratios will stay
 where they are, and thus that earnings growth will translate into parallel price
 appreciation. Or you can assume multiple contraction, in which case appreciation will lag
 earnings gains. But I doubt that a prudent investor can count on P/E ratio expansion as a
 source of future stock price appreciation. Thus, any positive returns will be determined
 primarily by the rate of earnings growth.

 Over the years I've quoted Warren Buffett as saying something like "people get into
 trouble when they forget that corporate profits tend to grow at 9% a year." In September I
 had a chance to ask him if he actually said that. "No," he said, "what I said is 'people get
 into trouble when they forget that in the long run, stocks won't appreciate faster than the
 growth in corporate profits.'" Other people spend a lot more time than me studying how
 fast corporate profits have grown and will grow. However, the evidence I'm familiar with
 suggests a figure somewhere in mid-single digits.

 So with dividends minimal and multiples unlikely to expand (at best), normal historic
 profit growth seems like a reasonable starting point for equity returns in the long-term
 future. (Of course, extrapolating historic corporate profit growth implies extrapolating
 the historic price increases and profit margins. Neither of these is assured, but why go
 there?) What I'm left with is trendline price appreciation somewhere in mid-single digits.
 Where in that range, I'll leave to others.

 Adding to Returns Through Active Management

 I have written a great deal on the subject of active management (see especially "Safety
 First . . . But Where?," April 2001) and have no interest in reiterating. But I will discuss
 the active management industry.

 An enormous infrastructure has been built up over the last century for the purpose of
 beating the stock market. Fifty or seventy-five years ago, that sentence would have read,"
 . . . for the purpose of managing stock market investments." However, the index fund
 industry has grown up in the last thirty years and made it clear that average performance
 can be accessed much more cheaply and dependably through passive management than
 through active management. Thus the raison d'etre of the active managers became
 beating the market.

 To do so, the investment management industry invests in analysts, portfolio managers and
 traders, not to mention accountants, salespeople and risk managers - plus wood paneling,
 oriental rugs and seascapes. All of this costs money, and the management firms want a
 return on their spending. So they charge healthy fees. The people whose money the
 firms manage also bear other costs entailed in active management, such as commissions,
 market impact, and taxes on short-term gains caused by active trading. The question is,
 "What are they getting for their money?"

 The problem is that there has been no documentation that active equity management
 consistently provides an edge in the mainstream stock market. Some individuals never
 beat the market, but even those who do usually see their success limited to brief periods
 of time. A given strategy works for a while and then stops. It's usually a matter of being
 patient and waiting until your ship comes in. Very few people are skillful enough to
 outperform through thick and thin. As I've said before, the attention paid to people like
 Warren Buffett and Peter Lynch is a tribute to their uniqueness and demonstrates the
 meaning of the phrase, "it's the exception that proves the rule." The rule is that few
 people can beat the market for long.

 We've already established that equity returns primarily come from appreciation. When
 seeking appreciation, you can look for one or more of the following:

 1 increases in an asset's intrinsic value (earnings or asset values),
 2 movement of the asset's price from a discount toward its intrinsic value (that is,
 from undervaluation to fair value), and/or
 3 movement of the price from intrinsic value toward a premium (that is, from fair
 value to overvaluation).

 In my opinion, superior returns come most dependably from buying things for less
 than they're worth and benefiting from the movement of price from discount to fair
 value. Making money this way doesn't require increases in intrinsic value, which
 are uncertain, or the attainment of prices above intrinsic value, which is irrational.

 The attractiveness of buying something for less than it's worth makes eminent sense.
 However, doing so requires cooperation from someone who's willing to sell it for less
 than it's worth. It's the SEC's goal to make sure that everyone has the same corporate
 information. So how is one to find bargains in efficient markets? You must bring
 exceptional analytical ability, insight or foresight. But because it's exceptional, few
 people have it. Once in a while someone will find an undervalued stock or guess right
 about the direction of the market, but very few people are able to do those things
 consistently over time.

 So What's To Do?

 You can try harder, but everyone's already trying their hardest. Or you can ratchet up the
 risk level of your portfolio - counting on the long-run relationship between risk and
 return - but once in a while that'll get you killed. Or you can look for inefficient markets.

 In inefficient markets, not everyone has the same access to information. I feel bargains
 are found most consistently among the things that are not widely known, not understood,
 or considered to be risky, complex, unfashionable, controversial, or unseemly. When you
 combine unequal access to information, uneven ability to analyze that information, and
 the effects of negative biases, it's possible for things to sell for less than they're worth. In
 inefficient markets, it's possible for a superior investor to consistently identify those
 bargains, and thus to beat the other players consistently. It's also possible to achieve risk-
 adjusted returns above those available in other market niches. All it takes is hard work
 and superior skill.

 However, it makes sense to assume that since the greatest reward for active management
 is found in the inefficient markets (along with incentive fees for the successful managers),
 that's also where sharp-eyed specialists will focus their efforts. (Think of card counting in
 blackjack versus betting on the spin of a roulette wheel; where do you think you'll find the
 Ph.D.s?)

 In addition, it must be borne in mind that few sectors remain so inefficient that they can
 be counted on to provide a free lunch for long. Over the years, many strategies have been
 thought to represent a sure thing, but most fizzled out. Computer software stocks, the
 nifty-fifty, oil stocks, emerging markets, and most recently tech-media-telecom - all of
 these groups have in turn been deified and decimated. Likewise, a number of investment
 techniques have had their day in the sun and then been eclipsed: covered call writing,
 portfolio insurance and "market neutral" funds are just a few. Nothing can be relied on
 for high risk-adjusted returns just because of what it's called. No investment area
 has that birthright. It's all a matter of the ability to identify bargain-priced
 opportunities and implement with skill.

 The bottom line might be that inefficient markets can be the source of superior returns
 and can be less heavily populated, but the players there are, on average, more competent.
 Because returns in inefficient markets are more dependent on investors' individual skill
 (which is highly variable) than they are on the market's overall return, there'll be a greater
 dispersion of results there. And that means lesser investors should be expected to
 underperform greater investors by a wide margin.

 Sources of Return for Active Managers

 The best way to look at portfolio return (y) is as follows:

 y = α + βx

 In this simple equation, α is the symbol for alpha, β represents beta, and x is the return of
 the market. Alpha is best thought of as a portfolio manager's differential skill or value
 added. It is the ability to generate performance unrelated to movement of the
 market. Index funds don't aspire to alpha. They're managed by people who know they
 don't have alpha (actually, most believe no one has any), and they simply strive to reflect
 the market's movements - no better and no worse. Active managers manage actively
 because they think they have alpha. They charge for it, and they should be able to
 demonstrate it. However, many without it seem to have gotten away with charging for it
 over the years.

 Beta is the extent to which a portfolio reflects the return of the market. A portfolio with a
 beta of 1 and no alpha will move up and down exactly as does the market. A beta of 2
 means it will move twice as fast in both directions. A beta of .5 means it'll move half as
 fast. A beta of zero means a total lack of correlation - the much sought-after "market
 neutral" fund, where all of the return comes from investor skill. A negative beta means an
 inverse correlation (a short position on an index fund is the best example).

 I believe the alpha/beta model is an excellent way to assess portfolios, portfolio
 managers, investment strategies and asset allocation schemes. It's really an organized
 way to think about the question, "how much of the return comes from what the
 environment provides, and how much from the manager's value added?" When one
 considers these things, some relevant inquiries are:

 Where did the return come from in the past?
 Where is the return expected to come from in the future?
 How exposed is a given strategy (or my overall portfolio) to market movement or
 dependence on claims of alpha? How much of my future return am I betting on the
 direction of the market, and how much on manager skill?
 What assumptions am I willing to make about the outlook for those two things?

 A lot is written about the tyranny of benchmarks. Excessive benchmarking (and an
 overemphasis on minimizing tracking error) can force managers to migrate toward
 benchmark asset weightings in order to reduce their risk of negative performance
 comparisons. Clearly, if a manager has real skill, this process can suppress it.

 However, there are very valid roles for benchmarking. Perhaps the best is in helping to
 attribute performance between market impact and the manager's value added. In fact, this
 can't be done without reference to an effective benchmark.

 It's obvious that this manager doesn't have any skill:

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 But neither does this manager (he just moves half as much as the benchmark):

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 Or this one (he moves twice as much):

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 This one has a little:

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 While this one has a lot:

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 This one has a ton, if you can live with the volatility.

 Period Benchmark Return Portfolio Return

 Chasing Alpha

 There are people who seem able to make money or beat the market year in and year out.
 It's not certain, however, that they'll manage portfolios long enough to convince the
 statisticians that alpha exists and that they have it. They might make so much money that
 they'll stop managing portfolios for others, and thus their performance will cease to be
 public. Or they might not live long enough for their records to attain statistical
 significance. (At the University of Chicago they told me it takes 64 years to be sure
 someone is good rather than lucky; more on this later.) But I know managers, including
 those I work with every day, who I'm convinced can add to return without adding
 commensurately to risk - and in fact while reducing risk.

 How do these "alpha managers" do it? As I described in "The Realist's Creed," the alpha
 managers I know come from the "I don't know" school. They don't expect to know more
 than others about the future direction of economies and markets, and thus they eschew
 market timing and other forms of macro decision-making. They just try to gain an edge
 by knowing more than others do about micro matters. As contrarians, they prefer to buy
 things that are out of favor. They invest defensively, thinking more about what they don't
 know than about what they do, and worrying more about losing money than about
 missing winners. They build their records on high batting averages and the absence of
 losers, rather than on occasional homeruns within a hit-or-miss pattern of returns.

 Most of them are hard working and driven. They take their jobs very seriously and think
 about their portfolios night and day. They tend to talk investments with each other, not
 football or movies. Many are "early adapters" who use technology to access diverse
 information sources in order to gain a knowledge advantage. They look for hard asset
 values or under-appreciated situations. They buy with confidence in their analysis, and if
 the price of the asset falls, they tend to like it more - and buy rather than sell. Most
 important is that intangible something - they just "get it" better than others.

 While going over this list of the characteristics I'd look for in a manager, I want to take a
 moment for an essential caveat. One thing these criteria guarantee is that there'll be times
 when investors from the "I don't know" school will look terrible. In times of euphoria,
 qualities like emphasis on value, contrarianism, skepticism and defensiveness are
 guaranteed to produce performance that sorely lags the hot sectors and the risk takers.
 This was amply demonstrated in 1998-99, when the best managers I know watched from
 the sidelines as others got rich . . . temporarily. People who employ alpha managers
 might feel pangs of regret over what they pass up in boom times, but they should know
 the route to performance they've chosen is far more reliable.

 Clearly, managers with alpha, once identified, can be depended on to a much greater
 extent than those whose returns are generated primarily by market movements. Having
 said that, however, I don't want to appear to underestimate the difficulty of finding
 managers with alpha. I've been on the receiving end of many presentations from
 managers pursuing foundation business, and I can certify that it's not easy to distinguish

 those who sound good and are from those who sound good but aren't. (People who don't
 sound good usually aren't allowed out to make presentations.)

 Certainly the search for alpha managers is a tough one. Not only is it hard to know which
 managers have it, but:

 The search for them will be littered with mistakes and losses.
 Good managers are likely to close their funds before their limits are exceeded.
 Managers talented enough to exploit inefficiencies will be able to appropriate a fair
 bit of the excess return for themselves in the form of fees.
 The limited size of inefficient markets and the limited capacity of the managers
 probably mean very large investment pools can't expect to invest enough with alpha
 managers to greatly affect their results. And their attempts to pump in large amounts
 of capital can ruin the opportunity for everyone.

 There certainly are stumbling blocks in the search for alpha managers, but it's worth
 trying. If you aren't satisfied with doing average in efficient markets, what else is there?
 Invest with managers who claim they know what the future holds and can otherwise out-
 invest everyone else in the same mainstream stocks? I doubt that's the way. To
 paraphrase Professor James Lorie of the University of Chicago (circa 1970), I'd rather
 "index the core of a portfolio and manage the heck out of the periphery" - hopefully with
 help from managers with alpha.

 The Role of Luck

 To end this memo on returns, I want to spend a few pages discussing the part played by
 randomness (or luck or chance). A new book on this subject is being passed around the
 alpha manager world more than Playboy was passed around when I was in the ninth
 grade. It's "Fooled By Randomness" by Nassim Taleb, a Ph. D. hedge fund manager and
 self-described aesthete.

 My "Realist's Creed" list of required ingredients for intelligent investing started with
 membership in the "I don't know" school; progressed through contrarianism, humility and
 skepticism; and ended with awareness of prevailing investor psychology. Taleb's book
 reminded me of one other essential: being conscious of the role of luck.

 This book can be difficult to read. Here are just two examples:

 Popper believed that any idea of Utopia is necessarily closed in the fact that it
 chokes its own refutations.

 . . . to be technical, these "randomizations" are frequently done during
 optimization problems, when one needs to perturbate a function.

 Nevertheless, I found its contents profound. In "Investment Miscellany" I discussed an
 article by Richard Bookstaber of Moore Capital and stated that, "What smart people do is
 put into logical words the thoughts we may have had but never formulated or expressed."
 Taleb is such an individual. As I did with Bookstaber's article, I will attempt below to
 communicate and explain some of his salient points, supported by excerpts from the
 book.

 Randomness (or luck) plays a huge part in life's results, and outcomes that hinge on
 random events should be viewed as different from those that do not.

 Thus, when considering whether an investment record is likely to be repeated, it is
 essential to think about the role of randomness in the manager's results, and whether
 the performance resulted from skill or simply being lucky.

 $10 million earned through Russian roulette does not have the same value as $10
 million earned through the diligent and artful practice of dentistry. They are the
 same, can buy the same goods, except that one's dependence on randomness is
 greater than the other. To your accountant, though, they would be identical. . . .
 Yet, deep down, I cannot help but consider them as qualitatively different. (p. 28)

 Every record should be considered in light of the other outcomes - Taleb calls them
 "alternative histories" - that could have occurred just as easily as the "visible
 histories" that did.

 Clearly my way of judging matters is probabilistic in nature; it relies on the notion
 of what could have probably happened. (p.29)

 If we have heard of [history's great generals and inventors], it is simply because
 they took considerable risks, along with thousands of others, and happened to win.
 They were intelligent, courageous, noble (at times), had the highest possible
 obtainable culture in their day - but so did thousands of others who live in the
 musty footnotes of history. (p. 35)

 Think about the aggressive backgammon player who can't win without a roll of double
 sixes. He accepts the cube - doubling the stakes - and then gets his "boxcars." It might
 have been an unwise bet, with its one-in-36 chance of success, but because it succeeded,
 everybody considers him brilliant. We should think about how probable it was that
 something other than double sixes would materialize, and thus how lucky the player was
 to have won. This says a lot about his likelihood of winning again.

 As my friend Bruce Newberg says over our backgammon games, "there are probabilities,
 and then there are outcomes." The fact that something's improbable doesn't mean it
 won't happen. And the fact that something happened doesn't mean it wasn't
 improbable. (I can't stress this essential point enough.) Every once in a while,
 someone makes a risky bet on an improbable or uncertain outcome and ends up

 looking like a genius. But we should recognize that it happened because of luck and
 boldness, not skill.

 In the short run, a great deal of investment success can result from just being in the right
 place at the right time. I always say the keys to profit are aggressiveness, timing and
 skill, and if you have enough aggressiveness at the right time, you don't need that much
 skill. My image is of a blindfolded dart thrower. He heaves it wildly just as someone
 knocks over the target. His dart finds the bulls-eye and he's proclaimed the champ.

 . . . at a given time in the markets, the most profitable traders are likely to be those
 that are best fit to the latest cycle. This does not happen too often with dentists or
 pianists - because of the nature of randomness. (p.74)

 The easy way to see this is that in boom times, the highest returns often go to those who
 take the most risk. That doesn't say anything about their being the best investors.

 Warren Buffett's appendix to the fourth revised edition of "The Intelligent Investor"
 describes a contest in which each of the 225 million Americans starts with $1 and flips a
 coin once a day. The people who get it right on day one collect a dollar from those who
 were wrong and go on to flip again on day two, and so forth. Ten days later, 220,000
 people have called it right ten times in a row and won $1,000. "They may try to be
 modest, but at cocktail parties they will occasionally admit to attractive members of the
 opposite sex what their technique is, and what marvelous insights they bring to the field
 of flipping." After another ten days, we're down to 215 survivors who've been right 20
 times in a row and have won $1 million. They write books on "How I Turned a Dollar
 into a Million in Twenty Days Working Thirty Seconds a Morning" and sell tickets to
 seminars. Sound familiar?

 Thus randomness contributes to (or wrecks) investment records to a degree that few
 people appreciate fully. As a result, the dangers that lurk in thus-far-successful
 strategies often are under-rated.

 Reality is far more vicious than Russian roulette. First, it delivers the fatal bullet
 rather infrequently, like a revolver that would have hundreds, even thousands of
 chambers instead of six. After a few dozen tries, one forgets about the existence
 of a bullet, under a numbing false sense of security. . . . Second, unlike a well-
 defined precise game like Russian roulette, where the risks are visible to anyone
 capable of multiplying and dividing by six, one does not observe the barrel of
 reality. . . . One is thus capable of unwittingly playing Russian roulette - and
 calling it by some alternative "low risk" name. (p. 28)

 Perhaps a good way to sum up Taleb's views is by excerpting from a table found on page 3
 of his book. He lists in the first column a number of things that easily can be mistaken for
 the things in the second column.

 Luck Skill

 Randomness Determinism
 Probability Certainty
 Belief, conjecture Knowledge, certitude
 Theory Reality
 Anecdote, coincidence Causality, law
 Survivorship bias Market outperformance
 Lucky idiot Skilled investor

 The table reminds me of a key difference between the "I know" and "I don't know"
 schools. "I don't know" investors are acutely conscious of the things in the first column;
 "I know" investors routinely mistake them for things in the second.

 I think Taleb's dichotomization is sheer brilliance. We all know that when things go
 right, luck looks like skill. Coincidence looks like causality. A "lucky idiot" looks
 like a skilled investor. Of course, knowing that randomness can have this effect doesn't
 make it easy to distinguish between lucky investors and skillful investors. But we must
 keep trying.

 I find that I agree with essentially all of Taleb's important points.

 Investors are right (and wrong) all the time for the "wrong reason." Someone
 buys a stock because he expects a certain development; it doesn't occur; the market
 takes the stock up anyway; he looks good (and invariably accepts credit).

 The correctness of a decision can't be judged from the outcome. Nevertheless,
 that's how people assess them. A good decision is one that's optimal at the time it's
 made, when the future is by definition unknown. Thus correct decisions are often
 unsuccessful, and vice versa.

 Randomness alone can produce just about any outcome in the short run. The
 effect of random events is analogous to the contribution from beta discussed on page
 six. In portfolios that are allowed to reflect them fully, market movements can easily
 swamp the skillfulness of the manager (or lack thereof). But certainly market
 movements cannot be credited to the manager (unless he's the rare timer who's
 capable of getting it right repeatedly).

 For these reasons, investors often receive credit they don't deserve. One good
 coup can be enough to build a reputation, but clearly a coup can arise out of
 randomness alone. Few of these "geniuses" are right more than once or twice in a
 row.

 Thus it's essential to have a large number of observations - lots of years of data -
 before judging a given manager's ability.

 * * *

 The bottom line for me is as follows:

 Equity returns should be expected to average in single digits at best for the next few
 years. This is because dividends will be moderate and P/E ratio expansion can't be
 counted on.
 Most investors are unlikely to find this market return satisfactory, and thus they will
 continue to try for more through active management. However, because of the great deal
 of attention paid to them, most mainstream markets are efficient. This means very few
 investors there will dependably achieve superior risk-adjusted returns or consistently beat
 the other market participants.

 To be able to earn better risk-adjusted returns and beat the market and the competition,
 one had better look in less thoroughly explored, inefficient markets. Even there,
 however, it's essential that one be, or employ, a superior manager possessing "alpha."

 It's hard to separate good managers from not-so-good managers, and to do so it's
 essential that we identify returns earned through genuine, repeatable skill, not just
 good fortune. In that regard, records that have been rendered above average by
 occasional flashes of greatness tell us much less than records that consistently have
 been even modestly superior over long periods of time, and those that demonstrate a
 dependable ability to avoid losses in tough markets.