Memo: Whad’Ya Know?.

I always ask Nancy to read my memos before I send them out. She seems to think being my wife
gives her license to be brutally frank. "They're all the same," she says, "like your ties. They all talk
about the importance of a high batting average, the need to avoid losers, and how much there is that
no one can know."

Well, I guess I do tend to go on about everything that investors would like to know but is
unknowable . . . and about all the people who claim to know it. But I've saved up some good stuff
for a "rant" regarding the "I know" school people who think they know but don't. So here I go
again (with apologies for the length).

The "Jumbo Shrimp" of Investing
U

One of my favorite oxymorons is "common knowledge." Knowledge just isn't that common, and
that which is common often contains little knowledge.

On February 4, USA Today cited a strategist as saying "there might be a silver lining to the current
investor backlash, because a lot of cash is piling up on the sidelines, and the heavy selling has
wrung out most of the downside." Everyone knows the stock market can't stop sliding and begin a
new bull phase rally until some cash has piled up on the sidelines. And thus everyone wants to see
selling exceed buying. That seems eminently reasonable.

And that's what makes it one of my greatest pet peeves. It makes sense, it's obvious, and people
have been saying it for decades, so it has become common knowledge. But it's wrong! There's no
such thing as net selling! And stock market transactions can't cause cash to build up! Think
about it. In every stock trade there's a buyer and a seller. So how can selling exceed buying? And
the buyer puts as much money into the market as the seller takes out. So how can selling create cash
on the sidelines?

As usual, there is a less simplistic explanation that's closer to the truth:

 While there can't be more selling than buying, there can be more would-be sellers than would-
 be buyers. And the sellers' desire to sell can be stronger than the buyers' desire to buy. These
 factors are indicators of negative sentiment, and they can lead to a selling climax that creates a
 market bottom, so they can presage the (eventual) end of a decline.

 And clearly, uninvested cash equates to potential buying power, and thus potential fuel for a
 rise. But uninvested cash can't result from selling (which requires a buyer to put in the same
 amount of previously-uninvested cash as the seller takes out). Rather, a buildup of potentially

 investable cash must come from sources that are exogenous to the market, such as household
 income, savings, tax refunds, and cash contributions to pension funds or endowments.

The bottom line: there's often no wisdom in the stuff that "everyone knows." And nowhere is that
more true than in investing.

 Toward Understanding Market Movements

One day in early 1995, the dollar made a big move against the yen. On my way to work, my radio
station's Tokyo correspondent reported that the Nikkei average of Japanese stocks had been off big
that day. He was glad to explain why: investors were worried about the weakness of the yen.

On my way home, the same station reported that the U.S. stock market also had declined a lot. The
explanation given: investors were concerned about the strength of the dollar.

Well that just can't be. If one currency moves relative to another, how can companies in both
countries be worse off than they were the day before? I think this episode illustrates a few themes.
First, the general understanding of economic events and their implications is very poor. Second,
everyone wants to explain the movements of the markets, and they'll grasp at any straw with which
to do so. Third, much of their commentary is useless. And, of course fourth, markets often do
things that defy logical explanation - but people keep explaining them anyway.

 New Yorker Magazine, 1981

Every day we hear or read that "the market rose on hopes that . . ." or ". . . because investors were
cheered by the news that . . ." Or perhaps it's "the market fell on fears that . . ." or ". . . because of
negative reaction to . . ." How do the commentators know? Where do they look to learn the reason
for each day's move? Does there have to be an explanation? Why don't we ever hear, "The
 U U

market rose today, but no one knows why"?!

 So What's The Point?

I don't begrudge people wanting to make money by expressing views that are beyond their ken and
of no value. I guess it's human nature. My complaint, however, is that it's misleading and injurious
to bystanders when people use serious platforms to state their unfounded views. They make it seem
so easy to understand economic and market developments, and thus to profit from them. Just as no
one should give legal advice or medical diagnoses on TV, the media should desist from providing
economic and market analysis as well.

I think some of the greatest contributors to the 1998-99 bubble were the talking heads of the media.
For every event they provided a without-a-doubt explanation and quantified its profit implications.
These "experts" were free with recommendations and exuded 100% certainty. As I've said before,
there are a few things they never said: "darned if I know," "it's hard to predict these things," and
"but I could be wrong."

Nobody was well served by the veneration of the "I know" school in the late 1990s: Main Streeters
were lured to invest in Wall Street without an understanding of the skills required or the risks
entailed. The market and thus the economy were put through an extreme boom-bust cycle. Risk-
taking investment gunslingers were anointed, and cautious value seekers were rendered irrelevant.
And the oracles themselves eventually were brought low - they seem much less free with gratuitous
wisdom and can't-miss buy recommendations today than they were four years ago.

 New York Times, March 15, 2001

Where Were the Strategists?
U

Another group that's no longer riding quite as tall in the saddle are the brokerage house strategists.
They attracted a lot of respect in the '90s, and some even attained "household name" status. But I
don't know of any who helped their clients avoid the pain of the last three years.

I think the test is simple: Did they call the TMT bubble? It's obvious in retrospect that many of the
tech/media/telecom companies and their strategies were somewhere between fanciful and fictitious;
the valuation multiples were ridiculous; investor behavior was nuts; and Wall Street had turned into
a machine for short-term appreciation. If it's so obvious in retrospect, lots of the strategists
(whose sole job it is to figure out what's going on and what it means for the future) should
have had an inkling at the time.

Since this was the most extreme event of our investment lifetime thus far, and since it built up in
plain sight over a period of years (as opposed to being the result of a sudden and surprising
exogenous influence), shouldn't the strategists have seen it? The emperor was as naked as he's
ever been, but the brokerage strategists failed to point it out.

Abby Joseph Cohen was the most prominent of the strategists, having made a real name for herself
by correctly predicting stock price gains for a decade or more. (Or was she simply an unmitigated
bull who never changed her tune regardless of the level of stock prices and looked smart in the
'90s?) I attended a meeting with her near the top and heard the tortured rationalization that allowed
her to stay bullish, something like: "Stocks are overpriced, but not by a lot, so based on our outlook
for interest rates and other factors, they're still a buy." My opinion's a little different: When an
asset's overpriced, it can't be a buy.

When I think about the events of the past decade, I conclude that the strategists failed to warn about
the risk in stocks because of some combination of (a) their congenital bullishness, (b) Wall Street's
vested interest in predicting stock price appreciation, and (c) the serious limitations on knowing
what the future holds. Rarely have so many been paid so much for contributing so little.

On that note, The New York Times wrote on January 27:

 When Barton Biggs announced last week that he would be leaving his job as Morgan
 Stanley's chief global strategist, it may have marked the end of a bull market phenomenon -
 the transformation of market strategists into celebrity gurus. . .

 Several Wall Street firms are reassessing the role of the highly paid stock strategist. Under
 intense pressure to cut staff costs in the bear market, investment banks not only have been
 downgrading the role of the strategist, but also have been questioning whether the position
 as it exists is relevant in today's complex market environment. . .

 These concerns rarely appeared during the boom years, when Mr. Applegate [late of
 Lehman Brothers] and Mr. Galvin [ex. Credit Suisse First Boston] became minicelebrities
 by cultivating hip personas in print and on CNBC. . .

 Lehman Brothers and Credit Suisse, which declined to comment on the strategists'
 departures, have decided that, for now at least, they can make do without well-known
 prognosticators.

Perhaps the website FierceFinance summed it up best that same day: "Now, Wall Street firms are
pondering whether [star strategists] have become anachronisms. It reminds me of the
perennial debate in Great Britain about the need for royalty in the modern era."

 How Do They Rate?

While we're on the subject of who knows what, we should consider the credit rating agencies.
These organizations are dedicated to assessing the quality of debt securities. They've been around
for scores of years and are viewed as objective. So highly are they thought of that their ratings are
accepted as regulatory standards and incorporated into law; there's even a special SEC label for
them: "nationally recognized statistical rating organizations." But do they do any good?

I confess: I love the rating agencies! Oaktree would be lost without them. My whole career
and many of Oaktree's activities are based on opportunities created by credit ratings.

First, a digression: In an efficient market, there's no chance for superior returns through active
management. Active managers need markets that are inefficient. What are inefficient markets?
They're markets where mistakes are made; where assets sell for prices different from their fair
value and thus can be bought for less (or sold for more) than they're worth. In order for those
mistakes to occur, there has to be ignorance, inadvertence, opacity, prejudice, emotion, or some
other obstacle to objective, insightful decision making.

The ratings agencies constitute just such an obstacle. My favorite example: literally for decades,
Moody's has defined B-rated bonds by saying they "generally lack characteristics of the desirable
investment." How can they say that based on the risk alone, without any reference to price or
promised return? Once they imply "there's no price at which this bond could be a good buy,"
people will shun it, making it cheap. That can create an opportunity for a bargain hunter.

And the ratings agencies are wrong a lot. Not in every case, but at the margin where it counts. The
agencies are convinced they do a good job because the bonds they rate low default more often
than the bonds they rate high. But the majority of speculative grade bonds never default, and
every once in a while an investment grade bond does. Both of these phenomena have
significant financial consequences.

For example, by failing to anticipate a default and thus mistakenly maintaining an investment grade
rating, the agencies allow bonds to sell at 80 that should sell at 20. That's an opportunity: for
investment grade bond managers to distinguish themselves by getting out before the default, and for
hedge funds to profit from selling short. And when the sense of security caused by those high
ratings is dashed, investment grade bond managers can be forced to dump these now-
nonconforming bonds, creating bargain-priced opportunities for buyers of distressed debt.

If the rating agencies were right every time, the bond market would be efficient; every bond's yield
would be just right for its risk, and there would be no free lunch, no excess return. And if there
were no rating agencies, there'd be no organized process for us to game against. In either case the
opportunities for Oaktree to buy cheap on behalf of its clients would be reduced. But I don't think
there's any risk of that. The concept of accurate ratings is dead; long live the rating agencies!

Often Wrong But Never In Doubt (or Hesitant to Share)
U

The January 6 issue of "Pensions & Investments" contained its 2003 Investment Outlook. Twenty
institutional money managers generously provided their views on what the coming year holds. They
ranged from cautiously bullish to outright bullish. The headlines on the more restrained forecasts
included:

 "'Double-Dip' a Possibility,"
 "Recovery with Headwinds,"
 "International Surprises Likely,"
 "Moving Sideways Toward a Bull Market,"
 "It Will Be a Stock-Selective Market," and
 "Blame Iraq"

The outright optimists said:

 "The Worst is Behind Us,"
 "Rocking and Rolling Before Long,"
 "Healing Process Is Already Well Along,"
 "Bullish on Credit,"
 "Crisis of Confidence Is Over,"
 "Bullish on Equities,"
 "We Are . . . in a Recovery," and
 "Extraordinarily Bullish for 2003."

The most guarded forecaster said the market could be close to flat; nobody said "down."

One of my greatest complaints about forecasters is that they seem to ignore their own records. I've
never heard one say, "I predict such-and-such will happen (and 7 out of my last 10 forecasts were
off the mark)" or "I predict such-and-such will happen (and, by the way, I predicted the same thing
last year and was wrong)." However, P&I did the unusual by critically reviewing the previous
year's forecasts. It poked a little fun at the West Coast manager who predicted the S&P 500 would
gain 15% in 2002, whereas it declined 22% instead. (He's again predicting a 15% increase for
2003; if he keeps at it long enough, he's bound to be right someday.) But P&I went one better by
pointing out that at the start of 2002, one of the worst years in stock market history, "not a single
one of 19 stock managers interviewed . . . predicted a negative return for the U.S. stock market."

The amazing thing to me is that these people will go on making predictions with a straight
face, and the media will continue to carry them.

The Value of Predictions II
U

The P&I survey reminded me of a memo I wrote in 1996 under the above title. It reviewed a few of
The Wall Street Journal's semiannual economic surveys and made several key points, not one of
which I would alter:

 The average "expert" added little in terms of predicting the future.

 It's not that the forecasters were always wrong; when there was little change, they were
 often right. It's just that in times of major changes (when accurate forecasts would have
 helped one make money or avoid a loss), the forecasters completely missed them. In the
 years reviewed, the expert consensus failed to predict all of the major developments.

 Where do these forecasts come from? The answer is simple: If you want to see a high
 correlation, take a look at the relationship between current levels and predicted future levels.
 . . In general we can say with certainty that these forecasters were much better at telling us
 where things stood than where they were going.

 Every six months, when the Journal reports on a new survey of forecasts, it takes the
 opportunity to cite the forecaster in the previous survey who came closest . . . And the truth
 is that the winner's accuracy is often startling. . . . [However,] the important thing isn't
 getting it right once. It's doing so consistently. . . As the Journal itself pointed out, " . . . by
 giving up the comfort of the consensus, those on the fringes of the economic prediction
 game often end up on the winning or losing end. . . the winners of six months and one year
 ago didn't even get the direction of interest rates right this time."

None of this provides much encouragement for those who would invest based on guesses about the
future. But neither, apparently, does it provide enough discouragement to make them stop.

Predicting the Events That Move Markets
U

I often write about how difficult it is to anticipate the things that will determine the direction of the
market. Think about it: what events in the last five years do you wish you'd seen coming?

 The meltdown of Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.
 The tech/media/telecom boom in the late 1990s.
 The tech/media/telecom collapse in 2000.
 The terrorist attacks in 2001.
 The corporate scandals in 2001-02.
 The interest rate decline in 2002.

Did you foresee many of these things? Did your money managers? Did anyone? I doubt it.

The market's big moves often come in reaction to surprises like these. But most of the time, the
consensus anticipates continuation of the status quo (especially when things are going well).
Surprises aren't factored into prices ahead of time (by definition). In the movie that runs inside my
head, the members of the "I know" school sagely intone, "We're not expecting any surprises"
(without appreciating the irony). It's when surprises occur that big profits are there for the
taking - by anyone capable of foreseeing them. It's just that it's not that easy.

So, as with economic events, the outlook for profitable market forecasts is bleak:

 If you make a conventional, status quo-type forecast, you're likely to be right most of the time.
 But since the status quo usually is shared widely and factored into prices, a status quo forecast
 won't help you beat the market or call its turns (even if it's right).
 The forecasts with real profit potential are the ones that correctly predict unusual events.
 But idiosyncratic forecasts are wrong most of the time (and thereby unlikely to be profitable).

So if (a) conventional forecasts are easy to make correctly but generally lack profit potential, and (b)
unconventional forecasts have theoretical profit potential but are hard to make correctly, then (c) it
should be clear that forecasts are unlikely to help you know enough about the future to beat the
market.

Does Anyone Point Out What The Consensus Doesn't Know?
U

I feel very strongly that the hundreds of economists and strategists with conventional forecasts add
little to the equation. On the other hand, Byron Wein of Morgan Stanley is one of the small group
who provide a very valuable service by consciously looking for surprises (and who knowingly
accept the risk entailed in talking about things that probably won't happen). At the beginning of
each year Byron publishes a list of ten things that most people feel won't happen but he thinks have
a 50% or better chance of taking place.

Here are some examples regarding 2003:

 The stock market gains 25%, largely due to foreign support.
 The economy shows 4% real growth, causing the 10-year Treasury yield to jump to 5.5%.
 Japan gets serious about fixing its problems, and the Nikkei soars to 11,000.
 Saddam steps down, Kim Jong Il negotiates, and we avoid major military action.

None of these things seems highly likely. But that's the point: if they seemed likely, they wouldn't
be on the list of things the consensus has dismissed. And they would be factored into market prices.
 U U

What Byron does for us is (a) call attention to some things to watch for and (b) perhaps more
importantly, remind us that the things that move the market are the surprises . . . although maybe not
these. I commend his list to your attention; it's all about what investors (and certainly the
consensus) don't know.

And by the way, Byron performs an additional service each year: he reprints his year-earlier list and
lets us assess which ones came true. Most years, a few have materialized, but there was no way to
know in advance which ones. In retrospect, half of his calls regarding 2002 look quite impressive:

 No major terrorist event occurs in the U.S.
 Early strength in the U.S. economy proves short-lived.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury drops below 4%.
 Japan's recession continues.
 Pension fund solvency becomes a major issue.

On the other hand, these don't:

 Iraq refuses to admit inspection teams.
 People start traveling again; airlines and hotels prove rewarding investments.
 Technology and telecom equipment orders improve.
 Post-Enron populism sweeps the U.S.; Democrats take control of both houses of Congress.

Byron's list shows us that (a) it is possible to predict some coming surprises, but (b) it isn't possible
to do so with high reliability. Thus it's not clear that betting on his list of potential surprises - or
any such list - would be profitable.

Here's A Non-Consensus Forecast for You
U

If you're looking for an idiosyncratic, non-consensus forecast to make some money on, see Robert
Prechter. As the February issue of "Bloomberg Markets" magazine stated:

 Forget about the Dow Jones Industrial Average returning to 11,000. Try Depression-era
 levels of less than 1,000. And don't flock to bonds for safety: Municipalities will default
 and corporate bonds will be wracked by downgrades. Even the U.S. government's credit
 status may sink low enough to make Treasury bills shaky.

You've heard of extreme sports; Prechter's recent record probably represents the norm for an
extreme forecaster. He joined the pantheon of famous forecasters by being right the obligatory once
in a row (but in a big way): he predicted a crash two weeks before October 19, 1987 made him right.
Then, according to Bloomberg, "he missed the almost decade-long bull market." And he hasn't
changed his spots since. "I'm once again calling for events that few expect," he says. "His work
is as relevant now as it ever was," says Henry Van der Erb. "A quack," says Michael Thorson.

And that's the point. His forecast certainly is non-consensus, and if you follow him and he's
right, you'll make a fortune (or at least avoid losing one). But who'll follow him? As I wrote in
"The Value of Predictions II,"

 It's difficult with regard to a non-consensus view of the future (1) to believe in it, (2) to act
 on it, (3) to stand by it if the early going suggests it's wrong, and (4) to be right.

How much do idiosyncratic forecasters like Robert Prechter really know about the future? How
much can their forecasts help you to know? And how much are you willing to bet on their being
right?

Reliance on Weak Data
U

Investment experts love to dredge up data supporting their observations, and ever since computers
began to be applied to the stock market in the 1960s, a remarkable number of phenomena have been
discovered and documented. On December 11, the Wall Street Journal went into detail concerning
"the so-called January effect - the tendency of certain stocks to rise in January after money
managers tweak their holdings for tax purposes."

Okay, that makes sense. Everyone knows stocks usually do well in January. But since it's no
secret, by now people should have learned to buy stocks ahead of the phenomenon, and that should
have negated it. As I wrote in "Etorre's Wisdom," if everyone moves into the fast lane, it'll stop
being the fast lane.

But let's say there is a January effect. My favorite part of the Journal article was where it suggested
that in 2002 people should wait until the end of December to buy, rather than entering the market
sooner. The reason: while December's usually a strong month, in 2002 a "statistical wrinkle" had
the potential to make it a weak month instead. "In more than half the 21 instances since 1897 when
the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 10% or more in the first 11 months of the year - it was
down 11.2% this year - December was a weak month."

Sounds astute, right? But wait. First, the data reaches back to 1897, and I'm not sure 100-year-old
observations are relevant today. Second, this set of facts has applied only 21 times in history, and
that's not much of a sample. Third, what's the significance of "more than half"? If I told you a
roulette wheel had come up black in 12 or 13 out of 21 spins, would that make you bet the ranch on
black? I doubt it. If I told you it was 20 out of 21, that might make you consider it. And if it had
been black 60,000 times out of 100,000 spins, you might race to the table (and find me there).

So what did happen to the January effect that "everyone knows about"? On February 3 the Wall
Street Journal reported:

 . . . The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished [January] with a 3.5% drop.

 That is an inauspicious beginning to the year, doubly so because it follows a 6% decline
 during December. Historically, December has been the strongest month for stocks, with the
 industrial average rising in 72% of the Decembers since 1900.

 A back-to-back December-January decline is rare; it has happened only 9 times since 1900.

 In five of those nine years, the market fell after the January fizzle.

So now the bullish January effect is discarded, and the bearish December-January effect demands
our consideration. What has the Journal proved? That we can no longer count on the January
effect? That it's bad to hold stocks when both December and January show declines? Neither of
these, I think. What's been proved is that more data doesn't necessarily mean more
information. The Journal suggests the December-January rule as a guideline for managing money,
but I wouldn't bet a penny on something because it happened five times out of nine. (After all, if
you flip a coin nine times, it has to come up at least five times on one side or the other.)

For another example, my attention was drawn to the graphic accompanying the Journal story, titled
"What Happens to Stocks When the U.S. Goes to War." It said, "The stock market has generally
weakened while anticipating war, but rebounded strongly when fighting proceeded." Do you really
think a meaningful inference can be drawn from something that's happened four or five times in a
century? Should people trade on it? And if not, why run the story? Who's helped?

I think statistics are like matches - the unsophisticated shouldn't play with them. When
shown to the public, they tend to produce confusion between possibility, probability and a sure
thing, and between random occurrence and cause-and-effect.

I Know a Good Thing When I See It
U

In "Lessons from Distressed Debt" I referred to Warren Buffett's observation that, in the short run,
the market's a popularity contest. And since anyone can tell a good company from a bad one, it
should be easy to predict the winners of the popularity contest and rack up above average gains.

The CFA Digest is a publication of the Association for Investment Management and Research that
provides two-page summaries of scholarly articles, and one-paragraph summaries of the two-page
summaries (making it very useful for busy people). The November 2002 issue reviewed an article
from the Journal of Financial Research entitled "Are the Best Small Companies the Best
Investments?" It cited eleven annual surveys of the "best" small companies that ran in Business

As the article shows, these surveys were of absolutely no value - check that; negative value - in the
search for stock market profits. Whereas the stocks of the chosen companies had far outperformed a
couple of stock indices in the three years prior to the surveys, they underperformed in the three years
following publication.

 In sum, the authors show that investing in stocks subsequent to their appearance in Business
 Week's "100 Best Small Companies," on average, provides negative excess returns relative
 to the benchmarks. The authors identify mean reversion of corporate operating
 performance, overly optimistic growth projections, and the bidding up of the prices of
 growth stocks to unrealistic levels as potential factors in this underperformance. The
 authors conclude that "any attempt to find winning investments from a 'hot growth' listing
 . . . appears futile."

So, I ask: what do you know about which companies are the best, and what does that tell you about
your ability to profit from that knowledge?

Help Is On the Way (Or Is It?)
U

For several months now, investment forecasters have been in the news - but not in a favorable
sense. The New York Attorney General, the SEC and the NASD have been all over Wall Street
brokerage firms and their analysts for their part in the tech/media/telecom craze of the late 1990s.

As everyone now knows, there was little or no "information" in many leading analysts' profit
forecasts, target prices and buy/sell recommendations. Profit forecasts often represented little more
than regurgitation of what management said. Target prices tended to be the levels analysts thought
stocks might reach (as opposed to what they thought was merited). And many of the "buy"
recommendations turned out to have been made to garner investment banking business, not to make
money for brokerage clients.

The remedies that prosecutors and regulators have arrived at are (a) to further separate the firms'
research function from investment banking and (b) to require brokerage firms to buy independent
research for their retail customers. I have some serious questions about whether the latter will
produce the hoped-for result:

 Will research boutiques with the best information provide it to retail investors? Will the top
 research shops want to communicate their information via the massive brokerages (and thereby
 sacrifice its uniqueness, and their relationships with institutional investors)?
 Will retail investors (or the brokerages on their behalf) be willing to pay top dollar for the best
 research? Or will it continue to go to institutional investors, with individuals getting the dregs?
 If independent research providers earn big dollars by selling their research to the Wall Street
 giants, will they remain insulated from the investment banking considerations that affect their
 new customers?
 The regulators want brokers to provide independent buy-hold-sell advice. Can a blanket
 recommendation be right for everyone?
 What chance is there that individual investors will gain access to and read the analysis behind
 the buy-sell recommendations? And make sense of it?
 Can anyone really produce research capable of helping investors achieve stock market
 profits?

As one observer noted in The New York Times of December 23, "What's amazing about this
settlement is that the investor will continue to get something for nothing, which is why we had these
scandals in the first place." In other words, investment research stopped being about investors
when commissions became unfixed and providing research became unprofitable. It was when
commissions became negotiable and payments for research dried up that the firms started thinking
less about their brokerage customers and more about investment banking. What's changed?

How Might the Regulators Help?
U

There are numerous obstacles to equipping retail investors with the tools they need to invest safely
and well. I feel most strongly that the answer doesn't lie in giving them "independent research" that
has been blessed and thus is likely to once again be overly depended on and just a new source of
pain. Instead, the regulators should make sure investors are educated as to (a) the
requirements for successful investing and (b) the severe limitations on forecasts and
recommendations. Brokerage firms are aided when investing is made to look easy and safe, but
their customers certainly are not.

On December 21, The New York Times carried an article about Jack Grubman, who seems to be the
poster boy for analyst malfeasance. What caught my eye, however, was the quote from Henry
Hochman, 88, who lost almost $10.7 million on WorldCom. "I'm broke. I have to start saving
pennies now. I can't live the way I was accustomed to living. It has affected my health. Smith
Barney told me this was the best of the telecom companies. Whatever Grubman wrote sounded very
good."

Of course, Grubman and Smith Barney are far from without fault in this matter, but Mr. Hochman
made his own mistake (although likely not unaided). From the fact that he had $10.7 million to
lose, we might guess that he had been an astute businessman. So what was he doing, in his late
eighties, investing enough in growth stocks - and in a single stock - to wreck his financial world?
If he didn't know this was a dangerous course of action, someone should have told him so.

I'm not saying it's the regulators' job to provide this education. But if they're going to get tangled
up in the investment process, I'd rather see them talk about what you can't know than what you

can. In other words, don't give investors new forecasts that they'll count on to lead them to
sure profits. Tell them there's no such thing. That would be a public service! Most thoughtful,
unconflicted observers think the average individual investor is better served through long-term
investment in mutual funds, and index funds at that. That's the message he or she should be given.

Hey, Get Yer Free Information!
U

I've talked about the strategists, economists, analysts and money managers whose views are
available free in brokerage house reports and in the media. The bottom line for me is that on
balance they don't contribute much. Some are right in a big way once in a while, but not often
enough to be dependable. Others are a little right a lot of the time, but they usually agree with the
consensus and extrapolate current conditions, and thus they add little value.

The statistics are clear. There just isn't any evidence that many managers can beat the market in the
long run, or that many of the professionals who profess to know the future actually do.

But there's another test that's even easier: if the forecast is correct, why is it being given away?
Nothing could be more valuable than correct information about the future. Given the leveraging
power of futures and options, anyone who saw the future correctly could become a billionaire in no
time. So when you see a forecast available gratis, I suggest you ask yourself, "Why is it being given
to me?" Having made that inquiry, I doubt you'll end up doing what the pundit said to do. As
usual, Warren Buffett has put it clearly:

 There's no reason in the world you should expect some broker to tell you whether you can
 make money on index futures or options or some stock in two months. If he knew how to
 do that, he wouldn't be talking to investors. He'd have retired long ago. (Money, Fall 1987)

Or, putting it a little more bluntly:

 Wall Street is the only place that people ride to in a Rolls-Royce to get advice from those
 who take the subway. (Los Angeles Times Magazine, April 7, 1991)

 * * *

I guess I've made it obvious how little I think of the "I know" school. Its members simply do not
know all they think they do.

Most congenital bulls - who seem to be the norm among big-stock devotees - make a ton when the
market soars but give it back in the bad years. The few congenital bears avoid participating fully in
down markets . . . and up markets as well. And most active managers buy and sell at a furious clip,
implying they know a lot. Yet I'm aware of few people who have beaten the market consistently by
correctly timing its ups and downs, or by picking among the stocks that everyone follows.

It might be exciting to manage money by adroitly timing exposure to the stock market, predicting
which industries will do best, and holding only the stocks that will go up the most. But my ten years
in equity research (and 25 years since as an observer) have taught me it's a fool's game. Massive

amounts of brainpower and computer power have been devoted to the task, but there's no evidence
it can be done. (In that connection, you might be interested to know how many profitable funds
there were in 2002 among the 100 equity funds that P&I says are most used by defined contribution
plans: none!) It wasn't for nothing that when I left equity research in 1978, I told Citibank "I would
do anything but spend the rest of my life choosing between Merck and Lilly."

So I'm a card-carrying member of the "I don't know school." Not because it makes life more
fun, but because it provides guidelines for working within the limitations of an intelligent,
highly competitive market.

When I was a kid, my mother often taught me through adages. One of the best went this way:

 He who knows not and knows not he knows not is a fool; shun him.

 He who knows not and knows he knows not is hungry; teach him.

 He who knows and knows not he knows is asleep; wake him.

 But he who knows and knows he knows is wise; follow him.

Overestimating what you're capable of knowing or doing can be extremely dangerous - in brain
surgery, cross-ocean racing or investing. As Dirty Harry said, "A man should know his limitations."
Acknowledging the boundaries of what you can know - and working within those limits rather
than venturing beyond - can give you a great advantage.

At Oaktree, we believe that because there's so much we can't know about the future, we should
invest only where our analysis tells us the worst case is tolerable. We try to avoid situations that
entail high expected returns but also a meaningful chance of being wiped out. Peter Bernstein put it
simply but elegantly in "Economics and Portfolio Strategy," January 1, 2003:

 In making decisions under conditions of uncertainty, the consequences must dominate the
 probabilities. We never know the future.

Or perhaps Blondie's take was the most profound:


Memo: What's Going On?.

In recent months, a few Oaktree clients have asked me to take part in give-and-take
 sessions with their investment staffs and other money managers. The discussions have
 revolved around changes in the investment environment and the implications for the
 future. The process of thinking about those subjects has given rise to this memo.

 A Sweeping Change
 U

 In the last three years, there have been massive changes in markets, investment thinking,
 expectations and behavior. The term "paradigm shift" certainly is overused, but in this
 case I don't think it's off target.

 During the 1990s and for many years prior, institutional investors such as pension funds
 and endowments targeted returns of 8-10 %. The task of appropriately allocating assets
 was made easy by the universal expectation (accompanied by sixty-plus years of
 supporting data) that stocks "normally" return 9-11 % per year. When the main engine of
 a portfolio's performance can be counted on for returns that exceed what's needed overall,
 asset allocation is a relatively easy task. Put a substantial majority of the portfolio in
 stocks, add a few bonds in a nod to conservatism and an allocation to private equity for
 spice, and the job's done.

 The only question was what you wanted your return to be (within the range of 8-10%),
 and the solution was found in the magnitude of your equity allocation. Certainly, overall
 portfolio returns in the range of 8-10% were viewed as readily attainable.

 But all of a sudden, no one thinks so anymore. Goals at that level (or even a little lower)
 now seem quite daunting. What has changed is the equity return people feel can be
 expected. History is out the window, and few people believe any longer in 9-11% from
 equities. Moderates talk about long-term returns between 4% and 8%, and the bear case
 is considerably lower (or negative). With high grade bond yields also in the low to mid-
 single digits, the two biggest asset categories are promising returns that fall short of the
 overall goal. Thus it's unclear how that goal can be achieved while holding any
 meaningful amount in stocks and/or high grade bonds - or whether it can be achieved at
 all.

 We all know what happened to prospective bond returns: economic weakness and the
 Fed's stimulative actions combined to lower prevailing interest rates, and thus promised
 bond returns, to 40-year lows. But what happened to the prospective return on equities?

 Simply put, people began to search for the elements that would lead to continued lofty
 equity returns, and they failed to find them. In the 1990s, few people pondered the fact
 that if corporate profits grow in single digits and "normal" equity performance is 9-11 %,
 two decades or so of returns almost twice that might be borrowing from the future. Now
 the future is here and that realization has set in. Those single digit profit increases
 (accompanied by low dividend yields) are expected to result in mid-single digit equity
 returns if P/E ratios are unchanged, and less if multiples shrink.

 So the question has switched from "How much would you like to make and spend?"
 to "How much can you make safely, and what will that let you spend?"

 Is There No Opportunity in Equities?
 U

 It is clear that (a) most people's expectations for equities now are in the mid single digits,
 and (b) equities are attracting as little interest as at any time in the last 25 years. There
 are, however, factors supportive of a more positive case:

 The most obvious is the fact that stock prices are off substantially since hitting
 record highs in early 2000.

 Another positive might be seen in the fact that the curtailing of expectations for
 equity returns coincided with the incurrence of substantial losses. Thus it's
 tempting to think that the moderation of expectations may have stemmed from the
 corrosive emotional effect of recent losses on investor psyches, not from new data
 or objective analysis.

 In fact, it's comforting to note a hopeful analogy. In August 1979, after a harsh
 correction in 1973-74 followed by several sluggish years, the cover of Business
 Week proclaimed "The Death of Equities" . . . just prior to the ignition of the
 historic bull market that lasted through 1999. As in that case, with attitudes
 toward equities beaten down so universally, the contrarian position today might
 be to bet heavily on them. Sentiment toward equities can hardly get worse and,
 unimaginable as it seems, it just could get better.

 At the same time, there are negatives to be dealt with:

 Even though stock prices have come down substantially, the average P/E ratio
 remains high - in the upper teens or low twenties, depending on whom you ask.
 In the last major cycle, which bottomed in the 1970s, P/E ratios reached levels
 like today's at the high and fell to single digits when prices hit bottom. By that
 U U

 standard, today's valuations suggest a high, not a low.

 One reason today's P/E ratios are high in the absolute is that interest rates are so
 low. Low interest rates justify a high valuation of future cash flows. But what

 does that imply for P/E ratios (and stock prices) if interest rates were to rise from
 today's historic lows?

 Lastly, we have to wonder where the energy for a more bullish market will come
 from, and specifically whether a generation of investors who've been burned is
 lost from the stock market forever.

 My own take is that even if the 9-11% historic long-term return on stocks remained
 relevant with regard to the future, (and certainly that's the best anyone could hope
 for), the above-average gains of the last two decades have borrowed from the future,
 and the high resulting P/E ratios imply an average return in single digits over the
 next few years.

 At the same time, I think some good individual opportunities may be found among
 orphaned small and mid-cap stocks. Because investment banks are no longer supposed to
 recommend stocks just to get investment banking business, their coverage lists might
 contract. The financial pressures and resulting layoffs at the big research firms are
 leaving many companies without coverage. Many un-researched companies will likely
 emerge from financial restructurings and corporate spin-offs. Put it all together, and
 expert stock pickers probably will find some good opportunities in the newly less
 efficient market.

 The Market Cycle at Its Wildest
 U

 In a memo on cycles entitled "You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." I discussed the
 general progression of a market cycle:

 Favorable developments and positive investor psychology cause prices to rise.
 Reports of price appreciation attract momentum players, who shout, "We'd better
 get in; who knows how far this can go." Their purchases of already-appreciated
 assets move prices still higher on a trajectory that appears capable of rising
 forever.
 Eventually, prices get so high that they vastly exceed intrinsic values.
 A few value-conscious investors step into the crowd to sell. Prices turn down,
 sagging under their own weight or perhaps because fundamental developments
 begin to be less favorable.
 Less-favorable developments and less-favorable psychology combine to force
 prices below intrinsic values.
 The pain of losses becomes so great that investors flee and prices reach giveaway
 levels. This time it's, "We'd better get out; who knows how far this can go."
 The first iron-nerved contrarians recognize that good values are available and start
 to buy.
 Others soon follow, and eventually the number of new buyers exceeds the number
 of sellers. Prices stop falling . . . and begin to rise.

 Reports of rising prices and the bargains obtained by those astute pioneers attract
 the masses to the marketplace, who shout, "We'd better get in . . . ," and the cycle
 continues.

 I've always known about this cycle. I've seen it at work for decades. But I've never
 seen it function - in terms of the extent and swiftness of the fluctuations - as it did
 with regard to low-grade debt over the last year. Because the performance of
 mainstream equities has little direct impact on Oaktree, we remain largely disinterested
 observers of stock market developments. But we are vitally interested in what happens in
 credit-related investments, and the change there has been mind-boggling.

 The Pricing of Credit Risk in 2002-03
 U

 It's hard to believe, but the biggest cycle I've ever seen in distressed debt began just about
 a year ago.

 With investors softened up by economic sluggishness, depressing world events
 and the realization of just how wrong they'd been in the 1990s, conditions were
 ripe for a crisis of confidence. The catalyst came in the form of an incredible
 series of corporate scandals.

 At first, Enron was viewed as an isolated instance of corporate venality. But then
 Tyco, Adelphia and Global Crossing began to suggest a pattern. Arthur Andersen
 was convicted and had to shut down. The capper was the disclosure of massive
 fraud at WorldCom. Billions were lost, confidence was dashed, and investors -
 so certain just a year or two earlier - no longer felt they had a foundation on
 which to base any confidence.

 Bond fund managers who thought they had bought money-good securities found
 themselves holding distressed debt. Bonds they felt good about buying at prices
 of 90 or 100 turned scary at 20 or 30. High grade bond managers sold down-
 graded bonds (or bonds expected to be downgraded) as required or to dress up
 their statements, and everyone sold to reduce concentrations, raise cash to meet
 withdrawals, or cut risk.

 Because of this combination of events, we were able to invest more than $2
 billion last summer in distressed debt priced very attractively. We put massive
 amounts into the public bonds of sizeable corporations - like Tyco, Qwest,
 Lucent, Nortel and Corning - that we thought might pay interest and principal as
 promised. In the past, we've always thought our distressed companies were 99%
 likely to default or go bankrupt. Now we were paying death's-door prices for
 bonds that we thought had a good chance of escaping that fate.

 In this way, the downswing of the distressed debt market cycle gave us unusually good
 investment opportunities: significant companies that might survive, giveaway prices,

 potentially high prospective returns, in vast quantities. We were buying at yields well
 above 20%, and total returns that we thought would be far higher if our credit judgments
 were validated. We felt our purchases in June-September 2002 rivaled those of 1990,
 which had produced our highest returns to date.

 But the most amazing thing is what happened next. The market turned on a dime,
 and in the next six months it became as strong as it had been weak.

 What caused the turn? Maybe it was the fact that scandals stopped erupting. Maybe it
 was the first few successful sales of assets made to improve balance sheets. Maybe
 investors realized that distressed debt offered excellent investment opportunities. Maybe
 distressed debt fund managers regretted having missed a major opportunity to invest
 during the summer. Or maybe it was Warren Buffett's announcement that Berkshire
 Hathaway had increased its holdings of lower-rated debt by $6 billion in 2002. Whatever
 the reason, sentiment turned from negative to positive . . . with a vengeance.

 Based on data for the OCM Opportunities Fund IVb, the distressed debt positions we
 bought in 2002 returned almost 20% in November alone, and 23% in the fourth quarter of
 the year. They took off again in early 2003, rising 15% in the first quarter and another
 10% in April. For the six months from November through April, the total estimated gain
 has been more than 55% (and more than 41% net of fees and expenses).

 This was yet another example of the schizophrenic swing of the investment
 pendulum: Trust replaced skepticism. Gain replaced loss. Greed replaced fear. And,
 incredibly, panic buying replaced panic selling. The cycle had swung from morosely
 negative to ebulliently positive in less than a year. And thus the Tyco bonds we bought
 in May 2002 at a 24% yield became gilt-edge securities that could be sold in January
 2003 - at yields of 4%-plus.

 We've seen the same cycle in high yield bonds. Last July, because investors had developed
 allergies to high yield bonds, the average bond had to provide more than 1,000 basis points
 more yield than a Treasury note of comparable maturity to induce investors to buy it. But
 now, investors have come to lust after high promised returns, and they are willing to buy
 the average high yield bond at a spread of just 600 basis points or so. The resulting
 estimated net return on our high yield bond portfolios: more than 15% for the 6 months
 November through April.

 But Why?
 U

 Most observers are familiar with the returns reported above, and with the changed
 attitudes toward credit risk that lie behind them. But I think the behavior of distressed
 debt and high yield bonds should be viewed in a broader context, not in isolation. There
 are big-picture influences behind these trends.

 What happens when people get excited about an asset class?

 capital floods in,
 prices rise,
 current returns soar, and
 prospective returns decline.

 But don't forget the significant ramifications. Investors lose interest in other asset
 classes; thus their prices fall (at least in relative terms) and their prospective returns rise.
 In other words, the popular asset becomes more expensive and the rest get cheaper.

 A powerful cult of equity believers held sway from 1978 - when I started to manage
 portfolios - through 1999, with only minor interruptions. The average return on the
 S&P 500 was over 17%. There wasn't a year in which the index declined more than 5%.
 Equity managers and analysts showed up on magazine covers and TV screens. Equities
 were fawned over in books ranging from "Stocks for the Long Run" (which explained
 that stocks could be counted on to beat bonds, cash and inflation in any period, providing
 it was long enough) to the self-explanatory "Dow 36,000." The man on the street
 accepted stocks as a sure thing.

 What both the man on the street and the investment professional missed was that the
 appreciation that powered stocks' record returns had borrowed from the future and made
 them very expensive. And the view that stocks were all you needed also implied that
 other assets were superfluous. Thus bonds went out of favor, at least in relative terms. In
 the 1990s, few of the people I met could think of a convincing reason for their fixed
 income allocations. Maybe that made bond yields and yield spreads more generous than
 they should have been. Stocks in favor and rich; bonds out of favor and cheap.

 And since the beginning of 2000? Stock prices are down. Confidence in stocks has been
 dashed. Equity return expectations have collapsed. Bonds and their contractual returns
 suddenly seem more attractive. Bond prices are up. Credit spreads have narrowed. The
 proof is seen in the performance described above.

 The Power of Capital Flows
 U

 I want to discuss one last element that's been behind the powerful appreciation we've seen
 recently. I think the explanation's easy.

 In the long run, investing is about value and the expectation that, eventually, price will
 catch up. But in the short run it's about psychology, emotion and popularity. The
 influence of those three factors comes through their effect on flows of capital, and in the
 short run it's capital flows that have the most profound impact of all.

 The equity market is huge: $8.6 trillion in the U.S. alone. The high yield bond universe
 is about a tenth that size, and distressed debt is a fraction of that tenth. When a few

 billion dollars were withdrawn from stocks, the effect was moderate. But when those
 same refugee dollars sought deployment in our niche markets, the impact was dramatic.

 In the last few months, what had been a buyers' market has become a sellers' market.
 Last year, especially in distressed debt, it was "the more money, the better." Now it's the
 opposite.
 In the long run the return on an investment will follow the fundamentals, and in that
 sense I think of it as something approaching a fixed-sum proposition. But market
 fluctuations will render the receipt of that return highly uneven, as price moves above and
 then below intrinsic value. Thus, everything else being equal, a higher return to date
 means a lower return in the future. In this way the recent increase in bond prices
 implies lower bond returns in the future, and the narrowing of yield spreads implies lower
 relative returns for lower-rated bonds. A manager of lower-rated bonds hates to have to
 make these admissions, but refusing to make the admissions wouldn't make them any less
 true.

 The Cat, the Tree, the Carrot and the Stick
 U

 I hope you'll forgive an incredible mixing of metaphors, but I can't resist using one to
 sum up on the subject of the current investment environment. As I think about situations
 like today's, (which, by the way, is not unprecedented), I visualize a cat in a tree. A
 carrot lures him out onto increasingly higher branches, and a stick prods him from
 behind.

 In my analogy, the cat is an investor, whose job it is to cope with the investment
 environment, of which the tree is part. The carrot - the incentive to accept increased
 risk - comes from the high returns seemingly available from riskier investments.
 And the stick - the motivation to forsake safety - comes from the modest level of
 prospective return being offered on safer investments.

 The carrot lures the cat to higher branches - riskier strategies - in pursuit of his dinner
 (his targeted return), and the stick prods the cat up the tree, because he can't get dinner
 while keeping his feet firmly on the ground. And that's a pretty good description of
 today's investment environment.

 Today the greatest carrots are perceived to be available in the high yield bond and
 distressed debt markets. Not only do they make sense as ways to play the economic
 recovery that is presumed to loom ahead, but also they have provided the best recent
 results. Of course, many cat-like investors fail to realize that excellent recent results
 don't add to an investment's prospective return; rather, they detract from it. But
 the carrot of high recent results never fails to attract new followers to a strategy.

 And, of course, the stick is extremely powerful today, because any substantial allocations
 to high grade bonds (with their promised returns of 4-6%) or to equities (whose

 prospective returns aren't perceived to be much higher) seem likely to ensure that a
 portfolio with a targeted return of 8-10% will fall short.

 So investors consistently climb out on the limb of whatever strategy has performed best
 lately, without noticing their increasing distance from the ground. Risk never looks like
 risk when it's generating a high return.

 Today that hungry cat is looking for a free lunch (oh no, not another metaphor!) in high
 yield bonds and distressed debt. Those markets may offer the best way to be well-fed
 today, but they should be pursued only with eyes wide open concerning the altitude
 to which one is venturing.

 What else is there to do? It may sound like heresy, but what about concluding that (a)
 under what appear to be today's revised circumstances, pursuing that high-up dinner is
 just too risky, and (b) investors should content themselves with what's available, with
 safety, on limbs closer to the ground? Am I being too oblique? Let me stop trying to
 extend the metaphor and put it simply: investors may have to consider lowering their
 target returns.

 * * *

 In recent times we've had several reminders regarding the inevitability of the market
 pendulum's swing, the propensity of investment popularity to wax and wane, the
 extremes of fluctuations, and the dramatic influence of cash flows. Some years, these
 transient influences will benefit us, as they have this year. Other years they're sure to
 hurt.

 We can try to cope by understanding where the pendulum stands at a point in time and
 striving to anticipate its future swings. Or we can put our energy into emphasizing long-
 term value under the assumption that we'll be able to ride out the fluctuations if we're
 right about the values. To help us deal with the short-run developments, we've chosen to
 do some of each in the affected areas.

 We're being very candid about market conditions.
 We're limiting our assets under management.
 And if market conditions don't take a turn for the better, our clients should expect
 a reduced ability to profitably employ capital in our markets.

 As to the long run, we're confident our adherence to value investing will continue to get
 us through.


Memo: The Most Important Thing.

As I meet with clients and prospects, I repeatedly hear myself say, "the most important
 thing is x." And then ten minutes later it's, "the most important thing is y" (and then z,
 and so on). Am I being disingenuous? Am I confusing the unimportant with the
 important? Is it that I can't make up my mind? Or is memory loss setting in?

 I hope (and believe) it's none of these things. If I have to come up with an explanation,
 maybe it's that I have strong feelings on a lot of subjects. Whatever the reason, I
 thought I'd collect in one place the precepts that guide Oaktree. Some might be more
 important than others, but in my view each one qualifies as "the most important thing."
 The most important thing - above all - is the relationship between price and value.

 For a value investor, price has to be the starting point. It has been
 demonstrated time and time again that no asset is so good that it can't
 become a bad investment if bought at too high a price. And there are few
 assets so bad that they can't be a good investment when bought cheap
 enough.

 When people say flatly, "we only buy A" or "A is a superior asset class," that
 sounds a lot like "we'd buy A at any price . . . and we'd buy it before B, C or D at
 any price." That just has to be a mistake. No asset class or investment has the
 birthright of a high return. It's only attractive if it's priced right.

 Hopefully, if I offered to sell you my car, you'd ask the price before saying yes or
 no. Deciding on an investment without carefully considering the fairness of its
 price is just as silly. But when people decide without disciplined consideration of
 valuation that they want to own something, as they did with tech stocks in the late
 1990s - or that they simply won't own something, as they did with "junk bonds"
 in the 1970s and early 1980s - that's just what they're doing.

 During the course of my 35 years in this business, investors' biggest losses have
 come when they bought securities of what they thought were perfect companies -
 where nothing could go wrong - at prices assuming that degree of perfection . . .
 and more. They forgot that "good company" isn't synonymous with "good
 investment." Bottom line: there's no such thing as a good idea regardless of
 price!

 On the way to work the other day, I heard an "expert" tell a radio commentator

 how to invest in today's stock market. "Figure out which industries have been
 doing best, and pick out the leading companies in those industries. The
 professionals know which they are, so their stocks will sport P/E ratios that are
 higher than the rest. But that's okay: do you want the best companies or the
 worst?" My answer's simple: I want the best buys.

 The most important thing is a solidly based, strongly held estimate of intrinsic value.

 To value investors, an asset isn't an ephemeral concept you invest in because
 you think it's attractive (or think others will find it attractive). It's a tangible
 object that should have an intrinsic value capable of being ascertained, and if
 it can be bought below its intrinsic value, you might consider doing so.

 Thus intelligent investing has to be built on estimates of intrinsic value. Those
 estimates must be derived rigorously, based on all of the available information.
 And the level of belief in estimates of intrinsic value has to be high. Only if the
 estimate is strongly held will a manager be able to do the right thing.

 If there's no conviction, a drop in the price of a holding can weaken the
 investor's faith in the estimate and make him fail to buy more, or maybe even
 sell, just when a lower price should lead him to increase his position. And
 price appreciation, which under most circumstances should prompt a review of
 a holding's retention, can tend instead to seduce the investor into raising the
 target price and possibly buying more.

 As expressed by David Swensen of Yale, ". . . investment success requires
 sticking with positions made uncomfortable by their variance with popular
 opinion. Casual commitments invite casual reversal, exposing portfolio
 managers to the damaging whipsaw of buying high and selling low."

 You may wonder from time to time about the high level of confidence exhibited
 by your managers. But bear in mind that the most profitable investments are
 unconventional, and maintaining unconventional positions can be lonely. When
 you buy something you think is cheap and then see its price fall, it takes a strong
 ego to conclude it's you who's right, not the market. So ego strength is
 necessary if a manager is going to be able to make correct decisions despite
 Swensen's "variance from popular opinion."

 Oh yeah, one last thing: those strongly-held views had better be right. Few
 things are more dangerous than an incorrect opinion held with conviction
 and relied on to excess.

 The most important thing is investing defensively.

 Oaktree follows a clearly defined route that it trusts will bring investment success:
 If we avoid the losers, the winners will take care of themselves. We think the
 most dependable way for us to generate the performance our clients seek is by
 avoiding losing investments. We don't claim that this is the only way to invest
 well; others may choose more aggressive approaches, and they may work for
 them. This is the way for us.

 Investing defensively can cause you to miss out on things that are hot and get
 hotter, and it can leave you with your bat on your shoulder in trip after trip to
 the plate. You may hit fewer home runs than another investor . . . but you're
 also likely to have fewer strikeouts and fewer inning-ending double plays. The
 ingredients in defensive investing include (a) insistence on solid, identifiable
 value at a bargain price, (b) diversification rather than concentration, and (c)
 avoidance of reliance on macro-forecasts and market timing.

 Warren Buffett constantly stresses "margin of safety." In other words, you
 shouldn't pay prices so high that they presuppose (and are reliant on) things going
 right. Instead, prices should be so low that you can profit - or at least avoid loss -
 even if things go wrong. Purchase prices below intrinsic value will, in and of
 themselves, result in larger gains, smaller losses, and easier exits.

 "Defensive investing" sounds very erudite, but I can simplify it: Invest scared!
 Worry about the possibility of loss. Worry that there's something you don't
 know. Worry that you can make high quality decisions but still be hit by bad luck
 or surprise events. Investing scared will prevent hubris; will keep your guard up
 and your mental adrenaline flowing; will make you insist on adequate margin of
 safety; and will increase the chances that your portfolio is prepared for things
 going wrong. And if nothing does go wrong, surely the winners will take care of
 themselves.

 The most important thing is avoiding bad years.

 Preparing for bad times is akin to attempting to avoid individual losers, and
 equally important. Thus time is well spent making sure the downside risk of
 our portfolios is limited. There's no need to prepare for good times; like
 winning investments, they'll take care of themselves.

 The mantra "beat the market" has been vastly overdone in the last 25 years, when
 outperforming an index has become the sine qua non of good management. But
 why should this be the case? Keeping up with the market while bearing less
 risk is at least as great an accomplishment, although few people talk about it
 in the same glowing terms.

 At Oaktree we believe strongly that in the good times, it's good enough to
 be average. In good times, the average investor makes a lot of money, and that

 should suffice. In good times the greatest rewards are likely to go for risk
 bearing rather than for caution. Thus, to beat the averages in good times, we'd
 probably need to accept above-average risk . . . risk that could turn around and
 bite us in a minute.

 There is a time when it's essential that we beat the market, and that's in bad
 times. Oaktree and its clients don't want to succumb to market forces in bad
 times and participate fully in the losses. And because we don't know when the
 bad years will come, we insist on investing defensively all of the time.

 Our goal is to generate performance that is average in good times (although we'll
 accept more) and far above average in bad times. If in the long run we can
 accomplish this simple feat (which time has shown isn't simple at all), we'll end
 up with (a) above-market performance on average, (b) below-market volatility,
 (c) highly superior performance in the tough times, helping to combat people's
 natural tendency to "throw in the towel" at the bottom, and thus (d) happy
 clients. We'll settle for that combination.

 The most important thing is facing up to the limits on your knowledge of the macro-
 future.

 Investing means dealing with the future - anticipating future developments and
 buying assets that will do well if those developments occur. Thus it would be
 nice to be able to see into the future of economies and markets, and most investors
 act as if they can. Thousands of economists and strategists are willing to tell us
 what lies ahead. That's all well and good, but the record indicates that their
 insights are rarely superior, and it's never clear why they're willing to give away
 gratis their potentially valuable forecasts.

 One thing each market participant has to decide is whether he (or she) does
 or does not believe in the ability to see into the future: the "I know" school
 versus the "I don't know" school. The ramifications of this decision are
 enormous.

 If you know what lies ahead, you'll feel free to invest aggressively, to concentrate
 positions in the assets you think will do best, and to actively time the market,
 moving in and out of asset classes as your opinion of their prospects waxes and
 wanes. If you feel the future isn't knowable, on the other hand, you'll invest
 defensively, acting to avoid losses rather than maximize gains, diversifying more
 thoroughly, and eschewing efforts at adroit timing.

 Of course, I feel strongly that the latter course is the right one. I don't think
 many people know more than the consensus about the future of economies and
 markets. I don't think markets will ever cease to surprise, or thus that they can
 be timed. And I think avoiding losses is much more important than pursuing

 major gains if one is to achieve the absolute prerequisite for investment
 success: survival.

 The most important thing is being mindful of cycles (and where we stand in them).

 We must never forget about the inevitability of cycles. Economies and world
 affairs rise and fall in cycles. So does corporate performance. The reactions of
 market participants to these developments also fluctuate cyclically. Thus price
 swings usually overstate the swings in fundamentals. When developments are
 positive and corporate profits are high, investors feel good and often bid assets to
 prices that more than reflect their intrinsic value. When developments are
 negative, on the other hand, panicky investors are prone to sell them down to
 overly cheap levels. So prices sometimes represent high multiples of peak
 prospects (as they did with technology stocks in the '90s), and sometimes low
 multiples of trough prospects.
 Ignoring cycles and extrapolating trends is one of the most dangerous things
 an investor can do. People often act as if companies that are doing well will do
 well forever, and investments that are outperforming will outperform forever, and
 vice versa. Instead, it's the opposite that's more likely to be true.

 The most important thing is contrarian behavior.

 Because of the fluctuation of both fundamental developments and investor
 behavior, assets are sometimes offered for sale at bargain prices and at other times
 at prices that are too high. A technique that works most dependably is putting
 money into things that are out of favor.

 Although investors often seem not to grasp it, it shouldn't be hard to understand:
 only unpopular assets can be truly cheap. And those that are in favor are
 likely to be dear.

 For example, one of the best reasons for the profitability of distressed debt over
 the years is that there's no such thing as a distressed company everybody loves.
 By the time they've made their way to our arena, distressed debt companies can
 no longer be on what I call "the pedestal of popularity." We buy at low dollar
 prices from depressed owners at a time when corporate performance is well
 off from the top. Not a bad formula. Certainly that doesn't have to mean that
 the investment's cheap enough, but at least there's a low probability it's pumped
 up on hot air (or investors' ardor).

 The momentum player buys what's up and bets that it'll keep going up. The style
 devotee buys one thing whether it's up or down. But the contrarian, or value
 investor, buys something that other people aren't interested in, in the belief that
 it's cheap and will become less cheap someday. There's no sure recipe for profit,

 but I think this one stacks the cards in your favor. As Sir John Templeton put it,
 "To buy when others are despondently selling and to sell when others are
 euphorically buying takes the greatest courage but provides the greatest
 profit."

 The most important thing is patient opportunism.

 At Oaktree we try to sit on our hands. We don't go out with a "buy list"; rather,
 we wait for the phone to ring (while we do our research and analysis). If we call
 the owner and say, "You own x and we want to buy it," the price will go up. But
 if the owner calls us and says, "We're stuck with x and we're looking for an exit,"
 the price will go down. Thus, rather than initiating transactions, we react
 opportunistically.

 One of our mottos is "we don't look for our investments; they find us." In
 general, that means investing from the bottom up, not from the top down - from
 the list of things that are available cheap, not in things we think it'd be great to
 have a position in. When you're a top-down investor, you predetermine that a
 given percentage of the portfolio should be invested in a certain sector, and then
 you proceed to look for the best bargains in that sector. The bottom-up investor
 has no such preconception; he looks for the best bargains, regardless of where
 they can be found. Sector allocation falls out largely of its own accord (but
 hopefully with concentrations held to tolerable levels).

 The most important thing is saying what you'll do, and doing it.

 The world of investing - where we deal with an unknown future - is filled with
 vagaries. Trying hard will take you only so far; no one is wise enough to get it
 right every time; and even the most well-intentioned manager will make
 mistakes on occasion. Therefore, if you're going to have successful
 relationships, effort, wisdom and good intentions aren't enough. A relationship
 also needs a solid foundation.

 In my opinion, that foundation comes best when managers tell clients exactly
 what they can do and will do . . . and then do it. Managers should be aware
 that usually they're not hired to pursue profit any way they can think of. Instead,
 it's to play a specific role in the client's manager lineup and impart specific
 attributes to the portfolio. Promising too much, or doing things outside one's
 charter, are surefire means to unhappiness.

 If every manager described his or her activities in explicit terms, and then stuck
 entirely to what had been described, the vast majority of problems between
 managers and clients would be avoided.

 The most important thing is preserving investment flexibility.

 This sounds like a good idea, but of course it can be the polar opposite of the
 explicitness recommended above. Given that it's impossible to know what the
 future will look like, however, it can be unwise to define too narrowly the
 tactics and strategies you'll apply.

 Clients want managers to be specific so that they'll know what to expect and
 have a high probability of getting what they signed on for. But excessive
 specificity can hamstring the manager. How can these two points be
 reconciled?

 In our funds over the years, we've made numerous successful investments that
 weren't foreseen when the funds were formed. I think the key to bridging
 this gap is to be very specific about your philosophy, goals and investment
 style, and to restrict as little as possible the specific strategies and tactics
 you'll employ.

 Once a manager has earned the trust of his (or her) clients, he may be granted
 leeway to change tactics so as to be able to adapt to changing market conditions.
 And clients can be confident that they'll get the investing style they want without
 limiting the tactics used to get it. In the end it should be borne in mind that
 there must be flexibility in order for a manager to be able to act
 opportunistically, and opportunism (applied skillfully) is an absolute
 necessity if one expects to keep up with changing market conditions.

 The most important thing is refusing to manage too much money.

 The investment management business is plagued by a dilemma: Good
 performance can bring more money, and too much money can bring bad
 performance.

 There, I've said it!! - at the risk of being thrown out of the money managers'
 union. All managers want to manage more than $1, or $1 million, and so they
 grow their assets. And certainly the first dollar of growth doesn't doom
 performance to mediocrity. But it absolutely cannot be argued that there isn't
 a point at which incremental capital causes performance to decline.

 One of my favorite incidents occurred when our local charity's investment
 committee was looking for a new manager. When I asked one candidate whether
 his firm had a limit on assets under management, he said, "We don't see any
 reason for a limit." But when I asked why their relative performance had declined
 precipitously in recent years, he said, "Well, we used to manage a lot less
 money." Less than insightful, I think (and he didn't get the job).

 I can assure you that turning away money is the hardest thing for a manager
 to do, but it's also one of the most important. For the last twenty years we've
 put limits on our strategies and turned away money, and we're extremely glad we
 did.

 The most important thing is understanding the implications of market efficiency.

 I believe strongly that some markets are quite efficient, meaning the collective
 actions of informed, diligent investors tend to make assets in those markets sell
 where they should. Assets become priced such that their prospective returns are
 fair relative to the perceived risk - but only fair. Clearly, if assets are priced
 fairly, it's hard to find bargains. And if it's hard to find bargains, there's no
 reason to go to the trouble (and expense) of active management. In efficient
 markets, few investors are capable of regularly outperforming the
 benchmarks and each other, and the range of investor performance is quite
 tight. In mainstream, large-capitalization stocks, for example, the management
 fees and transaction costs entailed in active management don't seem to be earned
 back with any regularity.

 But I also believe in the existence of relatively inefficient markets. In these
 markets, information may not be disseminated evenly; investors may not be
 objective or many in numbers; and uncommon expertise may be required. Under
 these circumstances, assets can be mispriced relative to their intrinsic value,
 relative to their risk, and relative to each other. And discernible mispricings are
 a necessary condition for profitable active management. Only if mispricings
 exist such that they can be exploited by skillful managers can consistent
 outperformance be possible.

 Finance theory holds that because it takes higher prospective returns to induce
 investors to make riskier investments, risk and apparent prospective return must
 be correlated. It also holds that since investors can't add to returns through active
 management, the only way to increase returns is by accepting more risk. This
 makes great sense with regard to markets that are efficient. And it highlights a
 final attraction of less efficient markets: that risk and return need not be so
 perfectly correlated. Thus, in inefficient markets, "low risk" doesn't have to
 mean "low return." In fact, I think our team's greatest accomplishment is
 having demonstrated over a long period of time that low risk and high
 returns can go hand in hand (and, in fact, that low risk can lead to higher
 returns).

 Because of my views on market efficiency and its ramifications, I made a
 conscious decision 25 years ago to work exclusively in markets I believe are
 inefficient. It's there that hard work and skill can pay off dependably. Common
 sense (and the record) suggest that if investors are going to earn superior risk-

 adjusted returns, it's not likely to be by doing the same things everyone else is
 doing. The best and most safely earned profits are apt to be found outside
 the mainstream, not inside.

 The most important thing is being leery of leverage.

 The key elements in Oaktree's investment approach include focusing on what's
 out of favor; ascertaining intrinsic value and trying to buy for less; and adding
 value by working with assets once we own them. If done well, these things can
 simultaneously increase prospective return and reduce risk. Leverage, on
 the other hand, increases prospective return and increases risk.
 U U

 There's nothing magic about leverage. It increases upside potential, but it also
 reduces or eliminates the margin of safety. Leverage is just an application of
 the Las Vegas maxim, "The more you bet, the more you win when you win."
 But I think people tend to omit ". . . and the more you lose when you lose."

 As Warren Buffett puts it, "It's a very sad thing. You can have somebody whose
 aggregate performance is terrific, but they have a weakness - maybe it's alcohol,
 maybe it's susceptibility to taking a little easy money - it's the weak link that
 snaps you. And frequently, in the financial markets, the weak link is
 borrowed money" (emphasis added).

 At Oaktree we believe it may be okay to use leverage to take advantage of
 unusually generous profit opportunities, but it's dangerous to use leverage to
 try to wring big returns out of small profit margins.

 The most important thing is acknowledging the impact of uncontrollable factors.

 Defensive investing, insistence on value, and shying away from leverage --
 they're all important. And much of the reason they're important stems from
 the fact that so little of short-term performance is under our control.

 Clients say, "We expect you to be in the top quartile after x years." What
 can we do to satisfy those marching orders?

 We can try hard, but we don't do any more for the client who wants top
 quartile performance than we do for the one who wants us to be above the
 median.

 We can put together the best portfolio we can, but doing so will have only
 limited impact on our relative performance. How we perform in relative
 terms will depend largely on what our competitors do.

 We can follow all of our guiding principles and execute with skill, but the

 performance of the portfolio will be highly dependent on the environment that
 unfolds.

 We can do everything for the best of reasons, but we can get unlucky (or our
 competitors can get lucky).

 And that's my point. There are a lot of moving parts in this machine, and
 many of them are beyond our control.

 We build portfolios based on the intrinsic values we see and the developments
 we think will unfold. But uncontrollable factors will have a profound impact on
 the results. It's essential to remember that the fact that something's probable
 doesn't mean it'll happen, and the fact that something happened doesn't mean it
 wasn't improbable. So we educate our clients as to what they can fairly
 expect, and we count on them to bear in mind the difference between
 probabilities and outcomes.

 If we see that a manager has reported a good year, it's hard to know whether to
 attribute it to skill, luck, or the fact that the manager's style was the right one for
 that moment. Additional years of data can reduce the role of random factors, but
 numbers can never lead to certainty. Thus the matter of choosing managers can't
 be entirely quantitative; instead, it has to rely heavily on a meeting of the minds.

 The most important thing is telling it like it is.

 Given the vagaries involved in the investment process - and they are legion - a
 thorough understanding based on high quality communications is key in client-
 manager relationships.

 The investment management business employs a lot of people whose job it
 is to communicate with clients and prospects. I've met a lot of them, and
 they're articulate, intelligent and personable. Their job is to put their firms'
 best foot forward. But how?

 There's a lengthy continuum - or is it a slippery slope? - from candor, through
 "spin," to gilding the lily, and ending in deceit. And in 35 years I've watched
 people operate at every point along that continuum.

 When Oaktree was formed in 1995, we established constructive
 communications as one of our key business principles. Among the elements we
 stress are these:

 Remember that candor and thorough understanding do more to build a
 strong, long-term relationship than forcing every development into a
 positive light.

 Don't take credit for things that go right for the wrong reason.
 Admit when things go wrong - without hiding behind excuses.
 Communicate not just the facts, but also an honest interpretation.

 As you know, communicating both inside and outside Oaktree constitutes a major
 part of my job. It's also the source of a great deal of my satisfaction.

 The most important thing is maintaining constructive personnel principles.

 Personnel turnover is endemic to the investment management industry and
 poses an enormous threat to long-term excellence. My career got its start at
 an institution where large numbers of raw recruits were trained each year, under
 the assumption that there would always be significant attrition. Because any
 greatness was expected to emanate more from the institution than from the
 individuals, however, people were considered fungible and turnover was
 accepted.

 But investing greatness, if it is to be attained, must come from people.
 Investing is an art, not a science, and few people can master that art.
 Superior investing is not democratic or egalitarian. If an organization is to be
 the best, it must find, train and retain the best. Not only does turnover drain off
 your best people, but it also takes their institutional memory and leaves you
 bogged down in hiring and training their replacements.

 We always have placed great emphasis on preventing turnover, and the results
 are visible - in the very small number of senior professionals who have moved
 on to other employment in my 25 years in portfolio management, and in the
 investment performance that my long-term colleagues have produced. The keys
 have been (a) hiring team-oriented players who care about something other than
 just making top dollar, (b) creating a collegial environment in which such quality
 people will want to work, (c) avoiding stifling bureaucracy, internecine office
 politics, destructive competition, and overemphasis on short-term results, and (d)
 always sharing the fruits of our success.

 This is one of the few areas where there is a magic formula: be fair.
 Oaktree's founders always say it's our goal to own less and less of a firm that
 becomes worth more and more. We think sharing ownership with key
 colleagues - rather than zealously holding onto it - is key in building a great
 firm.

 The most important thing is acknowledging the difficulty inherent in keeping a
 partnership intact, and going way out of your way to make it work.

 The statistics on divorce suggest that successful long-term unions are far from
 universal. Certainly in the high-octane investment management world,
 partnerships form and break up with regularity. But it doesn't have to be that way.

 Last month I was privileged to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of my
 partnership with Sheldon Stone, who joined me as an analyst at Citibank,
 moved with me to TCW, and has run our high yield bond portfolios since 1985.
 I found a quote from Andrew Kilpatrick's "Of Permanent Value" with which to
 mark that occasion, and Shel and I agree it's a pretty good formula for a
 successful partnership.

 I think you'll probably start looking for the person that you can always
 depend on; the person whose ego does not get in his way; the person
 who's perfectly willing to let someone else take credit for an idea as long
 as it works; the person who essentially wouldn't let you down; who
 thought straight as opposed to brilliantly.

 Our success in retaining 100% of our senior partners since 1983, and in
 maintaining harmony, is something I think about a lot. In doing so, I've identified
 some of the major impediments to a smooth-running partnership.

 First, conflicts of demeanor or style can have a very negative effect on
 cohesiveness. In the bull market, the aggressive partner says, "That wet blanket's
 holding us back." In the bear market, the cautious partner says, "That animal's
 getting us killed." Many of Wall Street's greatest flare-ups have been attributed
 to "culture clashes," such as the mid-1980s battle between traders and investment
 bankers that brought Lehman Brothers' independence to an end. I can honestly
 say that all of Oaktree's leaders subscribe equally to the principles on which our
 firm operates.

 Second, a partnership is problematic if partners don't respect each other's
 contribution. "I can handle all I do and all of what he does" is a statement with
 dire portent. In contrast, our interaction at Oaktree is highly symbiotic, and
 we're fortunate enough to appreciate that fact. I know my partners do a better
 job of portfolio management than I ever did. And they're glad to have me out
 visiting our clients, so they can stay back and manage their portfolios.

 Last, any partnership can be imperiled by the wrong kind of partner. There
 are a lot of people in the investment business about whom we might say, "He's a
 jerk, but he can make you a lot of money." And those people tend to get hired,
 because the profits they'll make are so tempting. But the only way to avoid
 rancor, strife and divisive debate is to work with people you respect and like (and
 vice versa), and who value working together in harmony above making the most
 money and winning every argument.

 So the recipe's simple: shared values and complimentary skills; mutual
 respect and an appreciation for each other's contribution; and people with
 whom you enjoy associating.

 The most important thing is having something you stand for.

 At a recent manager symposium, Roz Hewsenian of Wilshire Associates listed
 ten things a manager needs in order to survive a period of contracting asset
 prices and revenues. I've saved one of them for last: a mission other than
 Assets Under Management.

 Every day, investment managers are required to:

 negotiate the uncertainties entailed in investing,
 manage their businesses in a changing environment,
 deal constructively with talented, aspiring employees, and
 keep client relationships solid, even though there'll always be unsuccessful
 investments.

 To be able to do all of these things simultaneously, it helps to have a set of
 guiding principles and a well-thought-out approach. With these you can know
 how to set your course. You can arrive at decisions that reflect a consistent set
 of values. And your clients will know what your firm stands for and what to
 expect from you; nothing paves the way for a mutually successful
 relationship better than reasonable and deliverable expectations.

 Here - unlike in personnel policies - there is no magic formula. There are
 many ways to answer the myriad questions that arise in doing the things a
 manager has to do. It matters less which answers you arrive at, than that your
 answers are well thought out, internally consistent, principled, and firmly
 adhered to. What I've described above are the answers that Oaktree considers
 "the most important things."

 So that's the list. On reviewing it, I find I've touched on all six tenets of Oaktree's
 investment philosophy, and most of our business principles as well. We're committed to
 sticking to these eighteen points through thick and thin. Doing so takes solid
 commitment applied with a deft touch - not obstinacy, but insight. This is especially
 true in negotiating the conflicts: being clear about your investment intentions but not
 surrendering investment flexibility; holding fast to your views but stopping short of
 hubris. And maybe that's the nineteenth point: never think it'll be easy.


Memo: What’s Your Game Plan?.

As the summer ends, my thoughts turn to the tennis game I've been hoping to improve,
 the baseball season that's moving toward a conclusion, and the football season that's just
 getting started. It's enough to remind me of the role sports play in our lives . . . and in
 our thoughts about investing.

 How Oaktree Plays the Game
 U

 Sometimes I feel I should apologize for the frequency with which I use sports metaphors
 to express my views on investing. And I worry that they'll fall flat in Europe and Asia.
 But that doesn't seem to stop me.

 "The key to investment success isn't hitting home runs; it's avoiding strikeouts and
 inning-ending double plays." I say this over and over . . . and over . . . as you've no
 doubt experienced. But I truly believe it.

 Investing is a testosterone-laden world where too many people think about how good
 they are and how much they'll make if they swing for the fences and connect. Ask some
 I-know-school investors to tell you what makes them good, and you'll hear a lot about
 home runs they've hit in the past and the home runs-in-the-making that reside in their
 current portfolio. How many talk about consistency, or the fact that their worst year
 wasn't too bad?

 One of the most striking things I've noted over the last 35 years is how brief most
 outstanding investment careers are. Not as short as the careers of professional athletes,
 but shorter than they should be in a physically non-destructive vocation.

 Where are the leading competitors from the days when I first managed high yield bonds
 25 or 20 years ago? Almost none of them are around anymore. And astoundingly, not
 one of our prominent distressed debt competitors from the early days 15 or even 10 years
 ago remains a leader today.

 Where'd they go? Many disappeared because organizational flaws rendered their game
 plans unsustainable. And the rest are gone because they swung for the fences but struck
 out instead.

 That brings up something that I consider a great paradox: I don't think many investment
 managers' careers end because they fail to hit home runs. Rather, they end up out of the

 game because they strike out too often - not because they don't have enough
 winners, but because they have too many losers. And yet, lots of managers keep
 swinging for the fences.

 They bet too much when they think they have a winning idea or a correct view of the
 future, concentrating their portfolios rather than diversifying.
 They incur excessive transaction costs by changing their holdings too often or
 attempting to time the market.
 And they position their portfolios for favorable scenarios and hoped-for outcomes,
 rather than ensuring that they'll be able to survive the inevitable miscalculation or
 stroke of bad luck.

 At Oaktree, on the other hand, we believe firmly that "if we avoid the losers, the
 winners will take care of themselves." That's been our motto since the beginning, and
 it always will be. We go for batting average, not home runs. We know others will get
 the headlines for their big victories and spectacular seasons. But we expect to be around
 at the finish because of consistent good performance that produces satisfied clients.

 For Me, It Started With Tennis
 U

 In July, Larry Keele and I met with the Directors of the Vanguard Convertible Securities
 Fund to report on Oaktree's performance as the fund's manager. I was extremely pleased
 to see Charles Ellis of Greenwich Associates, one of the great thinkers in the investment
 field, whom I hadn't come across in many years. I was especially pleased to have a
 chance to tell him about the seminal part his 1975 article, "The Loser's Game," had
 played in the development of my thinking. The article employed a metaphor that was
 simple but profound.

 Charley's article described the perceptive analysis of tennis contained in "Extraordinary
 Tennis for the Ordinary Tennis Player" by Dr. Simon Ramo, the "R" in TRW. Ramo
 pointed out that professional tennis is a "winner's game," in which the match goes to the
 player who's able to hit the most winners: fast-paced, well-placed shots that his opponent
 can't return. But the tennis the rest of us play is a "loser's game," with the match going
 to the player who hits the fewest losers. The winner just keeps the ball in play until the
 loser hits it into the net or off the court. In other words, in amateur tennis, points
 aren't won; they're lost. I recognized in Ramo's loss-avoidance strategy the version of
 tennis I try to play.

 Charley took Ramo's idea a step further, applying it to investments. His views on market
 efficiency and the high cost of trading led him to conclude that the pursuit of winners is
 unlikely to pay off. Instead, you should try to avoid hitting losers. I found this view of
 investing absolutely compelling. I can't remember saying, "Eureka; that's the approach
 for me," but the developments over the last three decades certainly suggest his article was
 an important source of my inspiration.

 Because of his conviction that markets are efficient, Charley recommended passive
 investing as the best way to end up the winner - let others try the tough shots and fail.
 Oaktree's view is a little different. Although we believe in the existence of inefficient
 markets as well as efficient ones, we still view the avoidance of losers as a wonderful
 foundation for investment success. Thus we diversify our portfolios, limit the
 fundamental risk we'll take, try to buy things that provide downside protection, and
 emphasize senior securities. We, too, try to win by not losing.

 U Which Team Do You Want Out There?

 I recently came up with a new sports metaphor that handily illustrates a crucial choice
 each investor has to make. It goes like this:

 Think about a football game. The offense has the ball. They have four tries to make ten
 yards. If they don't, the referee blows the whistle. Off the field goes the offense and on
 comes the defense, whose job it is to stop the other team from advancing the ball.

 Is football a good metaphor for your view of investing? Well I'll tell you, it isn't for
 mine. In investing there's no one there to blow the whistle; you rarely know when to
 switch from offense to defense; and there aren't any time-outs during which to do it.

 No, I think investing is more like the "football" that's played outside the U.S. - soccer.
 In soccer, the same eleven players are on the field for essentially the whole game. There
 isn't an offensive squad and a defensive squad. The same people have to play both ways
 . . . have to be able to deal with all eventualities. Collectively, those eleven players must
 have the potential to score goals and stop the opposition from scoring more.

 A soccer coach has to decide whether to field a team that emphasizes offense (in order to
 score a lot of goals and somehow hold the other team to fewer) or defense (hoping to shut
 out the other team and find the net once), or one that's balanced. Because the coach
 knows he won't have many opportunities to switch between offensive and defensive
 personnel during the game, he has to come up with a winning lineup and stick with
 it.

 That's my view of investing. Few people (if any) have the ability to switch tactics to
 match market conditions on a timely basis. So investors should commit to an approach -
 hopefully one that will serve them through a variety of scenarios. They can be
 aggressive, hoping they'll make a lot on the winners and not give it back on the losers.
 They can emphasize defense, hoping to keep up in good times and excel in bad times. Or
 they can attempt to balance offense and defense, giving up on tactical timing but aiming
 to win through superior security selection in both up and down markets.

 Oaktree's preference for defense is clear. In good times, we feel it's okay if we just keep
 up with the indices (and in the best of times we may even lag a bit). But even average
 investors make a lot of money in good times, and I doubt many managers get fired for

 being average in up markets. Oaktree portfolios are set up to outperform in bad times,
 and that's when we think outperformance is essential. Clearly, if we can keep up in good
 times and outperform in bad times, we'll have above average results over full cycles with
 below average volatility, and our clients will enjoy outperformance when others are
 suffering. We think that's a winning long-term combination.

 Our game plan is built around defense. But that's not enough. We still need players with
 superior skills.

 Finding Your Role Model
 U

 An article in the Wall Street Journal of August 8, entitled "Greatness in Our Midst,"
 supplied the immediate impetus for this memo. It attempted to determine "who's the
 greatest living baseball player?" I'm no expert on baseball, but I liked the Journal's
 analytical approach and loved its conclusions.

 Of the five players discussed, Barry Bonds came in fifth. "If you're looking for a peak-
 value player - a guy to play one season as well as anyone ever has - this is your guy. His
 past two campaigns have been other-worldly . . ." Bonds has a ton of ability, but he has
 yet to prove that he's "the greatest." Lots of fence-swinging investors have had
 otherworldly years, but few have completed outstanding careers.

 Stan Musial placed fourth: outstanding at the plate, but below average on defense
 according to the Journal. It's tough to be the best without strong defense.

 The #3 pick was Willie Mays. He ended his career with excellent stats in many offensive
 categories and he was an outstanding fielder, having made what has to be the most
 famous catch in baseball history. Surprisingly, however, "in a career full of
 milestones, such as 3,000 hits and 600 homers, Mr. Mays doesn't own a single
 significant major-league record." Records aren't what it's about; I think its
 competence, consistency, and an absence of weaknesses.

 I like the way Ricky Henderson made it to runner-up. "Walks aren't sexy and steals
 aren't trendy," but Henderson holds the career record in both, and they positioned him to
 score. "And no one's done this more often than Mr. Henderson." It's kind of like being
 a steady performer in an unfashionable niche like convertibles, underdeveloped real
 estate or power infrastructure.

 The Journal's pick for greatest living player: Henry Aaron. Unlike Willie Mays, the
 Journal says, "Hammerin' Hank holds more important records than any player in history:
 home runs, runs batted in, total bases, extra-base hits and Aggregate Bases," (which it
 defines as the sum of hits, extra bases, walks and steals). And I love the way he did it:
 "Mr. Aaron's best seasons don't compare with those of Messrs. Bonds, Mays or
 Musial, but he played at a high level longer than any player in the history of the
 game." In my book, that's the definition of #1.

 Few people, in any field, can hope to have talents and abilities like these men. But each
 of us can try to apply the same work ethic, and we can select our role models and
 decide how to conduct ourselves professionally. I want an Oaktree that's like Willie
 and Hank. An exceptional career, even if it doesn't result in entries in the record
 books. Or a number of records, but for a lifetime, not a single great year.

 "Steady Eddie" Murray was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame just six weeks ago.
 He drove in at least 75 runs a year for a major league-record 20 consecutive seasons.
 I'd like Oaktree's play to be described as "Steady Eddie."

 Sandy Koufax was pretty steady, too. In the six years 1961-66, he was named an All-Star
 six times and led the league in earned run average five times, in strikeouts per inning five
 times, in hits allowed per inning five times, in hits and walks allowed per inning four
 times, in shutouts three times, in innings pitched twice, in won-lost percentage twice, and
 in complete games twice. He pitched a no-hit game every year from 1962 to 1965, and
 the last of those was a perfect game. Over that period, he essentially had no weaknesses.

 And, of course, I can't fail to mention Cal Ripken, Jr. He played all of his 21 seasons
 with the Orioles, a great oddity in a time when there's little constancy. And speaking of
 constancy, Cal is well known for his record of playing in 2,632 consecutive games,
 spanning a 15-year period. He also played 8,243 innings without missing one. Always
 there for his teammates and fans, he was chosen to start at shortstop in 17 consecutive
 All-Star games.

 These are my baseball heroes. They personify my aspirations for Oaktree.

 Playing Within Yourself
 U

 An expression from the broadcasting booth that's relevant to investing relates to the need
 to avoid pushing too hard. "Playing within yourself," they call it. It means not trying to
 do things you're not capable of, or things that can't be accomplished within the
 environment as it exists.

 When the defenders drop back to cover the deep receivers, the intelligent quarterback
 throws short passes until they move up. That opens up the downfield routes, enabling
 him to complete the long bomb. "He's taking what they give him," the commentators
 say, approvingly. It's what we all must remember to do.

 We simply cannot create investment opportunities when they're not there. In its first
 year, our newest distressed debt fund produced a 64% net IRR that's eye-popping . . . and
 impossible to replicate any time soon. So what should we do now? Rather than take
 profits and distribute the proceeds, should we prolong our holding periods or try to repeat
 our gains in new positions? And would it be smart to raise a big new fund? None of
 these, if the prospective returns on our holdings are inadequate and new investment

 opportunities are limited.

 The dumbest thing we could do is to insist on perpetuating our high returns - and give
 back our profits in the process. If it's not there, hoping won't make it so. All we ever
 can do is take what they give us.

 U What's Better, Investing or Sports?

 When people ask me what I like so much about investing, I usually go to the well for
 more comparisons to sports.

 It's competitive - some succeed and some fail, and the distinction is clear.
 It's quantitative - you can see the results in black and white.
 It's a meritocracy - in the long term, the better returns go to the superior investors.
 It's team-oriented - an effective group can accomplish more than one person.
 It's satisfying and enjoyable - but much more so when you win.

 Many of the things that make sports fun to watch and participate in are the same things
 that make investing a great area in which to work. However, Warren Buffett came up
 with one way in which the investor has it better than the athlete.

 In Berkshire Hathaway's 1997 Annual Report, Buffett talked about Ted Williams - the
 "Splendid Splinter" - one of the greatest hitters in history. A factor that contributed to
 his success was his intensive study of his own game. By breaking down the strike zone
 into 77 baseball-sized "cells" and charting his results at the plate, he learned that his
 batting average was much better when he only went after pitches in his "sweet spot." Of
 course, even with that knowledge, he couldn't wait all day for the perfect pitch; if he let
 three strikes go by without swinging, he'd be called out.

 Way back in the November 1, 1974, issue of Forbes, Buffett pointed out that investors
 have an advantage in that regard, if they'll just take advantage of it. Because they can't
 strike out looking, investors needn't feel pressured to act. They can pass up lots of
 opportunities until they see one that's terrific.

 Investing is the greatest business in the world because you never have to swing.
 You stand at the plate; the pitcher throws you General Motors at 47! U.S. Steel at
 39! And nobody calls a strike on you. There's no penalty except opportunity.
 All day you wait for the pitch you like; then, when the fielders are asleep, you
 step up and hit it.

 Buffett's approach, like that of Williams, rewards patience, selectivity and a
 superior understanding of the underlying process. These are some of the things
 Oaktree likes to emphasize.

 Back to Tennis for the Wrap-up
 U

 Just as this memo was going into the home stretch, the Wall Street Journal's Allan Barra
 greeted the start of the U.S. Open tennis tournament with an article about Pete Sampras.
 For me, it provided the ultimate investment/sports metaphor.

 Mr. Sampras will need no future historians to make his case as the greatest tennis
 player of our time. His career credentials - the 14 Grand Slam singles
 championships; the 63-7 record in Wimbledon and seven Wimbledon titles in
 eight years; the 71-9 record at the U.S. Open with 87 consecutive service games
 won there; the six straight seasons of being ranked No. 1 - do that admirably.

 . . . Sampras the player wasn't always exciting. Mr. Sampras's outstanding
 quality was always his uncanny consistency. Was there an athlete of the past 10
 to 12 years whose greatness has been harder to capture in highlights? His
 highlights were hard to distinguish from his lowlights. As I wrote in the Wall
 Street Journal a few years ago: "The definitive book on the man would have to be
 titled 'Pete Sampras: The Dullness of Excellence.' But who would buy it?"
 (August 26, 2003; emphasis added)

 The sentence I've bolded struck me as particularly thought provoking. You could read it
 as saying "his best moments weren't much better than his worst moments" - not a very
 stirring thought. Alternatively, you could read it as "his worst moments were almost
 as good as his best." In my view, that would describe a terrific money management
 career. We hope people will say it about Oaktree.

 * * *

 I'm always careful to point out that there are many game plans capable of leading to
 success. Offense or defense. Home runs or batting average. Go for the long bomb, or
 pick them apart with short passes. Battle from the baseline or rush the net. There are as
 many choices as there are sports metaphors. But the best game plan will only take you as
 far as the starting line or the first pitch. Once the game is underway, it comes down to
 skillful execution. The best strategy in the world won't pay off without skillful
 blocking and tackling.

 And having a talented, disciplined team that stays together - a rarity in sports or
 investing - doesn't hurt.


Memo: The Feeling's Mutual.

Throughout the recent, seemingly endless series of scandals, complaints, settlements,
 indictments and meltdowns involving corporations, auditors, brokerage firms, investment
 banks and hedge funds, the mutual fund industry remained untouched. That held true
 until September 3, when the Attorney General of New York State announced that Edward
 Stern of hedge fund Canary Capital Partners had paid $40 million to settle charges
 relating to improper dealings between Canary and a number of mutual funds. Since then,
 sordid disclosures involving mutual funds seem to be emerging on a regular basis.

 The Canary That Swallowed the Cat
 U

 What did Canary do wrong? It admitted to "mutual fund timing" and "late trading." Both
 of these tactics take advantage of what I would call "temporal disconnects" in the process
 through which the price for transactions in mutual fund shares is set. A fund's Net Asset
 Value is supposed to reflect the per-share value of the assets held in the fund's portfolio,
 so that people buying or selling fund shares at that NAV pay or receive a fair price for
 their portion of the fund's portfolio. However, the process is non-dynamic, in that the
 NAV is set just once a day based on the underlying securities' latest closing prices and
 isn't updated for events that occur subsequent to the market closings or subsequent to the
 time of the calculation. Canary acted to profit from instances when security prices used
 to calculate the NAV had become "stale."

 Most forms of market timing consist of people undertaking trades in order to implement
 their views regarding the future direction of security prices. Mutual fund timing is
 different, however, because the fund timer acts to profit from events that occurred in the
 past.

 The opportunity for mutual fund timing arises from the fact that every fund's Net Asset
 Value is calculated as of the close of trading at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, and orders for
 fund shares entered up to that time are executed at that price. (Under the rules, orders
 placed after 4:00 p.m. are executed at the next day's NAV.) In brief, the mutual fund
 timer acts to take advantage of knowledge that a security price factored into a fund's
 NAV is out-of-date and not reflective of recent events. For an example, think of a mutual
 fund that holds a U.K. stock, the trading of which ceased at 4:30 p.m. London time.
 Since 4:30 p.m. London time is equivalent to 11:30 a.m. in New York, it's the stock's
 price at 11:30 a.m. Eastern Time that'll be used to calculate the NAV at 4:00 p.m. Thus a
 timer has 41⁄2 hours in which to watch for a development rendering the London closing
 price obsolete, be it a general market movement or a company-specific event. In extreme

 cases involving infrequently traded securities, a timer may gain an advantage from
 knowledge that security prices haven't been updated for days or weeks.

 At first glance, this all appears relatively benign. It is not improper in itself to trade on
 knowledge that the prices of some fund holdings are stale. All investors have potentially
 equal access to this information, and they all have the same ability to enter orders for
 fund shares up to 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Further, most of these situations involve small
 pricing imperfections that relate to a small portion of the fund's portfolio, and trading on
 them isn't likely to materially change the return on a long-term investment in the fund.

 However, these trades can be highly profitable if the impact is magnified through
 minimization of the holding period. (E.g., taking advantage of a 1¢ error in a $10 NAV
 will add just .1% to the annual return if the fund shares are held for a year, but taking
 advantage of a new 1¢ disparity every day will increase the annual return by 25%!)
 Obviously, then, the key to achieving unusual profits through mutual fund timing lies in
 rapid-fire trading.

 The problem is that "knowledge-advantaged short-term trading" is inimical to the
 interests of a fund's other holders - in essence, these tactics permit a bystander to
 occasionally dart into the game and appropriate for himself some profit that
 otherwise would accrue to the fund's long-term investors (and also to run up the
 fund's costs). There are tools the funds can use to discourage short-term trading: they can
 impose exit fees, turn away investors based on their past behavior, or revoke trades.
 Many funds have policies of fighting short-term traders, and those policies and the
 actions the funds will take are set forth in their prospectuses. That's where the problem
 comes in.

 The complaint against Canary Capital states that, "Canary entered into agreements with
 dozens of mutual fund families allowing it to time many different mutual funds." Some
 of these funds ignored or contravened the policies stated in their prospectuses, and some
 accepted compensation for doing so. It is these actions on the part of the funds - and
 what Canary did to induce them - that are improper.

 Late trading is highly analogous to fund timing - it's another form of "knowledge-
 advantaged short-term trading." However, in this form it consists of placing a buy or sell
 order for a mutual fund after the 4:00 p.m. deadline, for execution at the previously set
 NAV, in contravention of the SEC's "forward pricing rule." This is done in order to
 profit from developments that have occurred since 4:00 p.m. and thus are not reflected in
 the security prices underlying the NAV set at that time.

 Consider the example of a mutual fund that has 4% of its portfolio in a stock that closed
 today at $40. An hour after the close, the company announces startlingly good earnings.
 A "late trader" may conclude that the stock will trade tomorrow at $50, and thus that,
 everything else being equal, tomorrow's NAV will be higher by 1% (the 25% stock price
 increase multiplied by the 4% position in the stock). Thus at 5:30 he enters an order to
 buy the fund at today's NAV, implicitly buying the company's shares at $40 and trusting

 that the NAV will rise tomorrow. On average, these trades can be highly profitable . . . if
 the holding period is short enough.

 Late trading is less ambiguous than fund timing. It's wrong (and illegal), and no one
 should be able to do it. It, too, takes away some of the profit that should have gone to the
 fund's long-term holders. Again, Canary made improper arrangements that allowed it to
 divert those profits to itself.

 Eliot Spitzer compared these two tactics to "betting today on yesterday's horse races." I
 seem to recall gamblers calling this "past-posting"; see the classic movie "The
 Sting" for a tutorial. You'd be surprised how easy it is to win when you bet on races
 that already have taken place. All you need is a way to get the bet down. And
 although making the bet may not be illegal in itself, the things you have to do to get
 someone to take the bet probably will be.

 Canary found mutual fund companies that were willing to permit fund timing and late
 trading in exchange for capital commitments and fees. In exchange for benefits for
 themselves, they were willing to assign some of their investors' profits to Canary.
 The relatively open manner in which these arrangements were negotiated, documented
 and communicated to senior managers (who seem not to have taken exception) suggests
 to me that the people involved were more stupid (and/or ethically tone-deaf) than they
 were larcenous. Regardless, however, the schemes went forward, and the NY Attorney
 General says Canary made "tens of millions of dollars" in this fashion. (Two additional
 examples have come to light this week. A portfolio manager at Alliance Capital was
 suspended on suspicion of permitting late trading in his mutual fund in exchange for
 commitments of capital to his hedge fund, perhaps to increase the incentive fees in which
 he would share. Also, a former trader at hedge fund Millennium Capital pled guilty to
 engaging in after-hours mutual fund trading.)

 Is This A Big Deal?
 U

 The money Canary made from these machinations, while very meaningful to Canary,
 probably represents a "flesh wound" for the funds' investors. Even "tens of millions"
 wouldn't materially change the investors' return when spread over a number of billion-
 dollar mutual funds and a three-year period.

 Spitzer's complaint cites an academic study estimating that these tactics divert $4 billion
 of profits per year from their rightful owners, the funds' long-term investors. Again, a
 large absolute sum but not material in relative terms: $4 billion equates to six one-
 hundredths of a percent of the $7 trillion total invested in mutual funds - $6 per $10,000.
 On September 19, the Wall Street Journal cited research estimating that in the fund
 classes where fund timing might be most profitable, it could reduce investors' annual
 returns by 1-2%.

 So the damage done to an individual shareholder, or all of them put together, isn't
 enormously material relative to the amount invested, or even the annual return. And by
 the time the plaintiff's lawyers subtract their fees, the damages won for the aggrieved
 parties aren't likely to be noticeable.

 It remains to be seen whether these tactics were widespread. In any case, I believe they're
 likely to be less so hereafter. The bottom line for me is that the Canary case, and the
 existence of fund timing and late trading, doesn't mean the mutual fund game is stacked
 against the investor. So does that mean the mutual fund industry is free from major
 shortcomings? I don't think so.

 The Client Comes First!
 U

 Just as in other corners of the money management industry, mutual fund companies face
 opportunities to make tradeoffs between their own welfare and the welfare of their clients
 . . . the two of which are far from identical.

 There's no question that the interests of clients should come first. Like lawyers,
 executors and trustees, money managers are fiduciaries. They hold positions of trust and
 owe a special duty to their clients. They are not supposed to "split the loaf" between
 themselves and their clients. Rather, the whole loaf must go to the client, in whose
 favor all conflicts of interest should be resolved. This is different from automobile
 sales, for instance, where it's completely acceptable - and universally understood - that
 the salesman will try to negotiate a higher sale price for a car in order to generate more
 revenue for his employer and more commission dollars for himself. Nobody's surprised
 to hear that car salesmen aren't fiduciaries.

 But besides being fiduciaries, mutual fund companies - like other money management
 firms - are for-profit organizations and marketing machines whose ultimate goal is to
 collect assets and make money. (There's at least one conspicuous exception: the
 Vanguard Group - whose Convertible Securities Fund we run - is a not-for-profit
 company owned by the investors in its funds). Jack Bogle founded the Vanguard Group
 and is a constant gadfly on the subject of mutual fund company behavior. In an article in
 the New York Times of September 14, he put it simply:

 The Investment Company Act says that the interests of fund shareholders must be
 placed ahead of all others, but the interests of managers have taken precedence.

 U Who Protects the Clients' Interests?

 In theory, a mutual fund is entirely separate and independent from the company that
 organizes it. The fund company doesn't "own" the fund or have the "right" to be its
 adviser. The directors of the fund are supposed to supervise the conduct of the fund,

 choose the adviser and revisit their decision annually. I would characterize this
 arrangement as largely a legal fiction.

 The website of the Investment Company Institute, an industry lobbying group, states the
 following:

 The directors or trustees of a mutual fund, as in the case of other types of
 companies, have oversight responsibility for the management of the fund's
 business affairs. . . . Under state law, directors . . . are expected to exercise sound
 business judgment, establish procedures and perform oversight and review
 functions, including evaluating the performance of the investment adviser . . .
 Directors also owe a duty of undivided loyalty to the fund.

 Overlaying state law duties is the fundamental concept of the 1940 Act that
 independent fund directors serve as watchdogs for the shareholders' interests and
 provide a check on the adviser and other persons closely affiliated with the fund.

 In my opinion, a number of significant issues surround mutual fund directors:

 First and foremost, I am highly skeptical of their collective performance, given
 that it is unheard of for a fund company to be terminated as the investment
 adviser of one of its funds. Have you ever heard of fund company XYZ being
 relieved of its duties as adviser of the XYZ Fund? From the fact that it never
 happens, we're supposed to believe that in every case the independent directors
 review the award of the management contract and conclude that XYZ continues to be
 the best possible manager for the fund. Can we possibly believe this process takes
 place? And that the fund company never deserves to be replaced?

 It seems unlikely that some of the directors in big fund families can know enough
 about all of their funds to make informed decisions. For example, the New York
 Times mentioned that the chairman of one fund board monitors 191 funds, and that a
 director oversees 60. How much can these directors know about the operation of
 each fund?

 There is good reason to question the independence of some of the funds' "independent
 directors." A good number of them are former employees of the fund companies.
 How likely are they to take away an advisory contract from their former firms? And
 how likely is an independent director to remain a director after he votes to fire XYZ
 as the manager of the XYZ Fund?

 Lastly, as in the case of corporations, there's the paradox of director compensation.
 Being a good director involves a lot of work, and it probably won't be done without a
 lot of compensation. But if the compensation is high enough, directors will want the
 job too badly to allow them to rock the boat. The board chairman referred to above
 was paid $816,000 last year. How likely is he to vote to fire the management
 company?

 The September 14 Times article included the following statements from observers of the
 mutual fund industry:

 Mutual fund directors sit on too many boards, and they are paid too much money
 for the time they devote to each individual portfolio. Under existing law the
 investment adviser is able to exercise a pervasive influence over the board.
 (Lewis D. Lowenfels, a securities lawyer at Tolins & Lowenfels)

 Directors certainly aren't doing much. We don't see much in the way of fee
 reductions - we see fee increases. When funds do terribly badly we don't see any
 management changes. We see directors' pay going up every year, and we see
 some pay that is just beyond the rule of reason, often paid to former executives of
 the management company. Fund boards only meet four times a year on average
 and they are still dominated heavily and intellectually by affiliated directors.
 (John C. Bogle)

 There were also a number of quotes from fund management company spokesmen:

 The Putnam trustees have a long record of independence. They were the first to
 have an independent nominating committee and the first to have an independent
 chairman. (John A. Hill, Chairman of Putnam's board)

 The Fidelity board always is conscientious and diligent in the service of the fund
 shareholders. We are proud to have on our board individuals who have the
 highest standards of integrity and business ethics. (Vincent Loporchio, Fidelity
 spokesman)

 Our fund directors are without exception distinguished leaders from business and
 government whose experience and insight serve our fund shareholders well.
 (Phillip J. Purcell, Morgan Stanley CEO and fund director)

 These protestations of diligence and independence would mean a lot more to me if
 the directors of these funds had a history of occasionally terminating the fund
 company as investment adviser.

 Issues Regarding Marketing
 U

 Ever since I was a teenager, I've heard that "mutual funds aren't bought; they're sold." In
 this regard they're like many other consumer goods. People don't decide they need them
 and figure out which one is the best. Often, rather, people are convinced to buy mutual
 funds through salesmanship.

 Mutual fund families are money-raising machines. They include some of the best
 marketing companies in America. But some of their excellence serves to enhance their
 treasuries at the possible expense of their clients.

 Of course, the industry stands for the delivery of active investment management to
 the masses (although some firms also provide passive management through index
 funds). Sales are achieved on the basis of comparisons against other mutual funds.
 Little is said about the long-run ability (or inability) of funds to beat the market.

 Some mutual fund families offer so many funds, of such an amazing variety, that it's
 not illogical to wonder whether their motivations don't include a desire to always
 have something in the top quartile, and something to advertise with four stars.

 The funds in the bottom quartile, on the other hand, have a striking tendency to be
 merged out of existence - causing their performance records to disappear.

 The industry can be criticized for hyping (and selling) funds in whatever market
 sector is "hot." Certainly we don't see any warning labels to the effect that "hotness"
 can be synonymous with elevated prices, and thus with the potential for subsequent
 losses. The mutual funds that were on magazine covers during the tech bubble buried
 their clients. It's not a coincidence that the average fund investor does worse
 than the average fund; it's because investor money is constantly being lured into the
 funds that have been performing best, and thus are the most precarious.

 Lastly, compensation arrangements at mutual fund sales organizations can be adverse
 to the clients' best interests. For example, there may be incentives to steer capital to a
 brokerage house's in-house-managed funds as opposed to selling competing funds -
 because a dollar invested in an in-house fund brings the firm more profit. Once I
 described a fund to a marketer in terms of its current yield, yield to maturity and yield
 to call. He said, "Forget about that; let's talk about the thing that matters most: YTB"
 . . . meaning "yield to broker." There was no doubt where his motivation came from.

 Issues Regarding Expenses
 U

 Most mutual funds operate in "efficient markets," where it's hard for one portfolio
 manager to get an edge versus the others. It's rare in the long run for any fund to beat its
 market benchmark or the other funds of similar riskiness in its niche. In efficient
 markets, expense minimization is the surest route to better net results, and it's for this
 reason that Jack Bogle pioneered the creation of index mutual funds. The performance of
 an index fund is certain to mirror that of the market, and expenses truly are minimized.

 But almost all mutual funds are actively managed, and their expenses are anything but
 minimized.

 The average mutual fund carries investment management fees far above those paid by
 institutional investors, even those investing far smaller amounts of money.

 The administrative expenses borne by the funds are high and, most significantly, have
 not demonstrated a tendency to decline in percentage terms as the size of funds has
 increased. That is, they haven't reflected any economies of scale.

 Many fund shareholders pay continuing marketing charges. Why should the costs of
 selling funds be borne by the shareholders? The usual response is that a bigger fund
 benefits its shareholders. But then, shouldn't increasing size result in a declining
 expense ratio?

 Even as the total assets of the top 25 equity funds were increasing 845 times over the
 last 51 years, the average expense ratio rose from .64% of assets to 1.50%, an
 increase of 134%. (Source: "The Mutual Fund Industry in 2003: Back to the
 Future," by John C. Bogle)

 As the total assets of the top 25 equity funds grew from $2.2 billion in 1951 to $1.9
 trillion in 2002, the charges for managing and administering a dollar of assets more than
 U U

 doubled. One wonders how many of the "diligent, independent" directors resisted those
 increases.

 * * *

 Are mutual funds good for America? In delivering market participation to retail
 investors and capital to America's companies, they're invaluable. In hyping hot
 investments and charging high fees for modest performance, they provide no great
 service.

 Are mutual funds safe vehicles for investing? They're no safer than the markets in
 which they invest, or passive funds. But cost aside, they're not much worse.

 Are mutual funds scandal-ridden? The Canary Capital incident doesn't worry me, but
 I think the long-term structural issues discussed above are very troubling.

 Mutual funds are a good thing overall, and they could be made even better. But that will
 require a conscious decision to always place the interests of fund shareholders above
 those of the fund companies. In many cases, that's going to take a while.