Memo: Hey, Steward!!.

Webster's defines a "steward" as a household manager, union representative, fiscal
 agent or one who attends passengers while traveling. Some of these concepts have
 become less relevant in today's world.

 Before World War II, ocean voyage was the main mode of transportation abroad, and
 the steward was someone passengers depended on for their welfare.

 When plane travel took over from ships, it was the stewardess (and then in the 1980s,
 the steward again) who played the same essential role. Of course, in the 1990s,
 political correctness caused "stewardess" and "steward" to disappear in favor of
 "flight attendant."

 The trade union movement has depended heavily on the work of the shop steward, the
 union representative closest to the men and women of the rank-and-file.

 And when I started in the investment management business in the 1960s, those who
 managed money for others thought of themselves - and were thought of - as stewards
 of their clients' money. They aimed to protect their clients from loss and generate a
 reasonable - even an attractive - return as long as it could be done with risk in check.

 With the passage of time, I find I hear the word "steward" less and less. But in talking
 about the mutual fund irregularities that have been exposed in the last few months, I
 cannot help but borrow a phrase from Jack Bogle that employs it. (I wish I could coin the
 phrases I use in these memos, but usually I find myself relying on the creativity of others.
 In this case, I absolutely can't improve on Jack's way of putting it.) On November 8, The
 Economist quoted him as saying, "Amassing assets under management became the
 [mutual fund] industry's primary goal, and our focus shifted from stewardship to
 salesmanship." (Emphasis added)

 That's it. Right there. In a nutshell. Of course some of the late-trading incidents
 involve individuals who simply took money out of their clients' pockets and put it
 in their own (metaphorically). But in case after case - involving late trading and
 other issues - mutual funds companies forgot their duty as stewards of other
 people's assets, doing things that disadvantaged clients in order to build assets
 under management for their own benefit.

 Each of us faces the need to balance our own interests against those of others. The
 salesman stresses the positives and soft-pedals the negatives to increase his

 commissions. The head of a charity draws a salary that reduces the amount left for the
 organization's good work. The doctor collects for his services, and the more he
 charges, the fewer the people who can afford them. And we investment managers
 charge management fees, and sometimes a percentage of the profits, that cut into our
 clients' net return. We all want to increase our incomes, but it should be possible to
 stick to the high road while doing so. The tradeoffs present challenges, but they can be
 overcome.

 I do not argue that mutual fund executives - or investment managers in general - should
 be expected to serve in an eleemosynary capacity. Certainly Oaktree doesn't run on pure
 altruism. Vanguard comes close to the ideal, as a non-profit organization owned by its
 fund owners, but Vanguard's people take compensation, not vows of poverty. The
 critical question in my mind isn't whether people make money, or even how much,
 but what methods they employ to do so, how candid they are about those methods,
 and how the inevitable conflicts of interest are resolved.

 U What's Wrong With a Little Salesmanship?

 My October memo "The Feeling's Mutual" argued that late trading wasn't the worst
 thing going on in the mutual fund industry. Rather, it pointed to questionable long-term
 practices relating to governance, marketing and compensation.

 [Before I go further, I want to do something I failed to do in October: make clear that
 neither my earlier memo nor this one is intended as a universal indictment of the mutual
 fund industry. While there are questionable aspects to the industry's general practices
 and some bad apples, there also are clean operators and even shining examples. I
 apologize to any of the latter that feel I've treated them like the former. The good news
 is that the money withdrawn from the bad apples is being reinvested in other mutual
 funds, meaning the good citizens are being rewarded, as they should be.]

 Recent months have brought disclosure of a variety of questionable asset-building
 practices.

 Revenue sharing - According to the Wall Street Journal of January 9, this is an
 arrangement through which, in addition to any explicit sales compensation, "fund
 companies give brokers a cut of their management fees to induce them to sell their
 products." Many brokerage firms have a list of preferred funds or fund companies,
 and often the funds pay to be on the list. The Journal reported, for example, that
 Edward D. Jones & Co. "has selling arrangements with about 100 mutual funds, but
 90% to 95% of its fund sales come from the seven preferred companies who engage
 in revenue sharing." Under revenue sharing, a brokerage firm can get a percentage of
 the assets invested in the relevant funds or of the management fees (and in some
 cases, of both).

 Brokerage-for-sales deals - These were described by the Journal (January 13) as

 "arrangements under which fund firms direct trades to . . . brokerages in returns for its
 (sic) funds staying on their 'preferred list.'" Sometimes funds allocate commissions
 to brokerage firms in order to pay off the revenue sharing obligations described
 above.

 Sales incentives - In its article on Jones, the Journal also reported "more than half of
 the firm's brokers are invited on [Caribbean cruises and African-wildlife tours paid
 for by fund companies on the preferred list], based on meeting certain overall sales
 targets." At some brokerage firms, brokers have received higher commission rates
 for selling funds that generate revenue sharing. Elsewhere, the commissions for
 selling funds managed by the brokerage's in-house money management arm have
 been higher than those on third-party-managed funds.

 On January 13 the Securities and Exchange Commission said that 14 out of 15 broker-
 dealers it examined had received cash payments from mutual fund companies. Is it
 wrong for brokerage firms and/or their brokers to receive compensation for emphasizing
 a company's funds? After all, supermarkets accept compensation from food companies
 for giving them more desirable "shelf space." Isn't that a valid analogy?

 The answer lies in the significant distinction between an ordinary businessman and a
 trusted adviser. Supermarkets have no fiduciary duty to their customers, and customers
 don't expect supermarkets to provide objective, professional advice regarding which
 brands to buy. The opposite is true for stockbrokers.

 Under securities laws, brokers are held to the high standard of trusted financial
 advisors - not just salespeople - and must either offer objective advice or
 properly disclose any serious conflicts. . . . "We recognize there is a conflict of
 interests between the broker and the mutual fund investor," says Robert Plaze,
 associate director of the SEC's Division of Investment Management. "That client
 needs to understand the recommendation of their broker is being affected by these
 payments." (Wall Street Journal, January 9)

 How would you like to learn that the heart surgeon to whom your general practitioner
 sent you had paid for the referral? That your banker recommended a trust-and-estate
 lawyer in exchange for a holiday cruise? Or that the broker who suggested you buy a
 certain fund was paid to do so?

 "The deception is that the broker seems to give objective advice," says Tamar
 Frankel, a law professor at Boston University who specializes in mutual-fund
 regulation. "In fact, he is paid more for pushing only certain funds." (Ibid.)

 The Los Angeles Times put it another way on January 18:

 There are two ways to describe such payments, and both smell bad, said Don
 Phillips, a principal at fund research firm Morningstar, Inc. in Chicago: They're
 either bribes by mutual fund companies to spur sales, or they're blackmail by the

 brokerages to do the same.

 In the case of mutual funds that direct brokerage commissions to reward fund sales,
 there's an additional alarming element: Not only is the fund company paying for a
 recommendation, but it's making these payments with its client's money, not its
 own. Commissions belong to the client. They should go to pay for things that benefit
 the client, such as superior research or best execution. When they are used to reward
 fund sales, their use benefits only the fund company.

 Sunlight as Disinfectant
 U

 The solution is to inform clients of these practices. Where the interests of client and
 broker are in conflict, the broker should disclose the conflict. In this case, he should tell
 clients that he and his firm received special compensation for making the
 recommendation they've made, or for having sold large amounts of certain funds. Fund
 companies and brokers would respond that they've done just that.

 The problem is that the SEC agreed that disclosure needn't be made directly by each
 broker to each client. Instead, general disclosure in mutual fund prospectuses is enough.
 Unfortunately, "legal disclosure" too often seems to be an oxymoron, guided
 primarily by the question "how can we say something so as to minimize the likelihood
 that the reader will understand what we said?" For example, according to the Journal of
 January 9, " . . . Putnam typically discloses in its prospectuses that it may 'pay
 concessions to dealers that satisfy certain criteria established from time to time by
 Putnam Retail Management relating to increasing net sales of shares of Putnam funds
 over prior periods, and certain other factors.'" Huh?

 How many prospectus readers are capable of extracting the significance from that
 sentence? How many know the meaning of the word "concession" in this context?
 How many even read the last dozen "boilerplate" pages of a prospectus?

 First, I think regulators should insist not on disclosure, but on effective disclosure.
 Things should be expressed in everyday English, such that laymen can grasp their
 significance. And the things that matter should be separated from the things that don't.

 Second, disclosure of the conflicts between fiduciary and client should be made
 directly by the fiduciary, and should be made clearly. How about, "The fund's
 sponsor is paying me extra to recommend this fund to you"?

 The Average Common Denominator
 U

 As I wrote in "The Feeling's Mutual," I think the most significant failing of the mutual
 fund industry - and the area where the most sweeping changes hopefully will be seen -
 relates to the governance responsibilities of fund directors. This can be looked at, for

 example, in terms of the management fees paid by mutual funds.

 I believe most of the mutual funds in a given market sector pay management fees (setting
 aside administrative expenses and marketing charges) significantly above those paid by
 institutional accounts of comparable size. While the cash inflows and outflows
 experienced by mutual funds may cause higher turnover - and thus more work for
 portfolio managers and back office personnel - the successful funds also see asset
 growth. So I see no justification for higher fee rates.

 It's the job of fund directors to police fees and ensure that they're justified and fair. Do
 they do this? Do they actively resist requests for increases or pursue reductions? Who
 goes to the mat on behalf of the fund holders to keep down the management fees? With
 fund boards often headed by current or retired management company executives, how
 vigorous are the efforts to minimize fees?

 Here's what I think is a typical response, from John Hill, independent board chairman
 for the more than 100 mutual funds operated by Putnam: "We spend a lot of time
 looking . . . at costs. We've had a rule for years that fund expenses can't be any
 higher than the median expenses of comparable funds across the industry." (WSJ,
 January 13, emphasis added.)

 In other words, the directors aren't concerned about whether fees are fair or
 justified. Or whether they're comparable to institutional account fees. They just
 look at how their funds' fees stack up against those of other funds. So if the average
 mutual fund in a given sector pays its management companies a fee well above the
 institutional rate, they're willing to do so also.

 Suppose you wanted to invest $1 million of your own in high yield bonds. If you learned
 that a high yield mutual fund charges a .65% management fee while institutional
 managers charge .50%, you'd probably choose the latter. The knowledge that every high
 yield mutual fund charges .65% likely wouldn't alter your decision. But mutual fund
 directors seem to derive great comfort from it.

 Last week I conducted an empirical study by accessing the websites of the first nine high
 yield mutual funds that came to mind. The management fees on seven of these multi-
 billion dollar funds exceeded the institutional norm of .50%, ranging from .58% to .75%
 and averaging .65%. I wonder what those funds' managers charge institutional accounts
 of similar size.

 I've often heard the rejoinder that the "little guy" with $50,000 to invest can't get into a
 top institutional manager. And even if he could, he couldn't access the lowest fees. Thus
 it's reasonable that he pays fees above institutional rates - he can't do any better. But the
 fund could. Why shouldn't the aggregation of 1,000 little guys, each with $50,000,
 pay the same fee as an institution investing $50 million?

 In this year's Berkshire Hathaway annual report, Warren Buffett shares his observations

 regarding mutual funds. "Year after year, at literally thousands of funds, . . . the directors
 had mindlessly approved fees that in many cases far exceeded those that could have been
 negotiated." In response, he proposes independent fund directors affirm each year that
 "we have negotiated a fee with our managers comparable to what other clients with
 equivalent funds would negotiate." We'll see if they do.

 Are fund directors and executives putting their clients' interests first? Are they acting as
 the stewards of their clients' assets? Is there room for improvement? I feel there'll be a
 lot of scrutiny on this subject in the months ahead. Hopefully all mutual funds and their
 directors will end up acting a lot more like stewards.

 The New Math: 4 + (12b-1) = 3
 U

 Back in 1980, some genius figured out a way for the mutual fund companies to extract
 more from their funds: use investors' assets to pay the costs of fund distribution. Rule
 12b-1 was adopted, permitting charges against fund assets for this purpose. According
 to a Morningstar report of January 6, "The rule was introduced following a period of
 substantial outflows for the fund industry and was intended to help funds grow their
 assets."

 It was felt that asset growth would benefit funds and their investors, and thus it would be
 proper for investors to bear some of the cost. According to the rule:

 A [mutual fund] company may implement or continue a [12b-1] plan . . . only if
 the directors who vote to approve such implementation or continuation conclude,
 in the exercise of reasonable business judgment and in light of their fiduciary
 duties . . . that there is a reasonable likelihood that the plan will benefit the
 company [i.e., the fund] and its shareholders.

 As Morningstar puts it, "the latter phrase would seem to require that the fee will result in
 more assets, and ultimately lower costs - otherwise, there is no benefit to the fund" (or
 its investors). Of course, fund companies would have a clear conflict: more expense
 reimbursement for them would translate directly into lower asset values for their
 investors. The SEC recognized this conflict and stated in the release accompanying the
 rule that it remained "generally concerned about (1) the conflicts which may exist
 between the interests of a fund and those of its investment adviser in deciding whether a
 fund should pay its distribution costs, (2) the likelihood that the fund will benefit from
 paying such costs, and (3) fairness to existing shareholders."

 Thus the SEC required that 12b-1 fees be approved by majorities of the full board, the
 disinterested (i.e., independent) directors, and the fund's shares. It went on to state that,
 "Since rule 12b-1 does not restrict the kinds or amounts of payments which could be
 made, the role of the disinterested directors in approving such expenditures is
 crucial." (Emphasis added)

 Based on data contained in Morningstar's excellent report, the results in this regard
 are not encouraging:

 Of the 15,774 funds tracked by Morningstar, 9,981, or 63%, charge 12b-1 fees.
 Of 4,556 12b-1 funds for which there is at least five years of data on expense
 ratios, 66.2% showed an increase in the expense ratio over the last five years.
 The percentage of funds showing expense ratio increases was roughly the same in
 12b-1 funds as in non-12b-1 funds, but the average increase for the 12b-1 funds
 was slightly greater than for the non-12b-1 funds.
 When looked at for nine years, the comparison is more negative. 12b-1 funds
 showed expense ratio increases more often than non-12b-1 funds, and the
 differential between the increases in the two groups was more unfavorable.

 As Morningstar puts it, "The above data strongly suggest that 12b-1 fees do not help
 funds materially reduce their expense ratios over time any more than would otherwise be
 the case, and may, in fact, do the opposite."

 The fund companies have successfully transferred some of the costs of distribution to the
 funds' investors, using 12b-1 fees primarily to pay brokers in order to increase assets and
 benefit the fund companies. But there is no evidence - certainly not in the form of
 decreasing expense ratios - that they benefit investors, as they're supposed to. Despite
 this, Morningstar says, "Even as funds grow, their 12b-1 fees don't usually decrease or
 go away."

 Why are 12b-1 fees so widespread and so persistent? And what's the reasoning of
 the independent directors who approve them? How do the directors feel about the
 buy-and-hold investor who invests in fund shares and pays distribution fees for the
 next twenty years? At best, I'm afraid, the director's answer regarding 12b-1 fees
 can only be the same as it is on management fees: "Our practices are no worse than
 those of our competitors."

 One gem on which to close: currently, 12b-1 fees are being collected by 227 mutual
 funds (or classes of multiple-share-class funds) that are closed. How can the
 directors of funds that aren't trying to attract new investors justify the continuing
 imposition of fund distribution charges? How can they possibly interpret this as
 fulfilling their responsibilities to the funds' investors? Who do these directors
 represent?

 U What Else?

 I want to make it clear that just as I do not universally indict mutual fund executives
 and directors, I don't think stewardship problems exist only in the mutual fund
 industry. Most of the shortcomings disclosed in the corporate scandals of 2001-02 -
 in Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia, HealthSouth and Tyco - stemmed from the failure of
 executives to act on behalf of the shareholders who own the companies, and from the

 failure of directors to police the executives.

 The examples are endless: excessive compensation, unwarranted expenditures, phony
 accounting, and transactions intended only to deceive or obfuscate. In general,
 executives forgot that they run companies for their owners and instead tried to turn them
 into personal piggybanks. Or they decided to eschew honest reporting in order to hype
 results and thus their own economics. Directors of these companies haven't been accused
 of wrongdoing, just underachieving. They were too complacent and obliging, and thus
 asleep at the switch. As Warren Buffett says, "sadly 'boardroom atmosphere' almost
 invariably sedates their fiduciary genes."

 The fundamental questions regarding corporate directors and executives are the same as
 those I proposed earlier regarding mutual funds: How much ends up in the pockets of the
 company and its owners, and how much in the pockets of the stewards? What means are
 used to accomplish this "wealth transfer"? How much is disclosed, and how clearly?

 A number of thought-provoking examples were discussed in the Wall Street Journal of
 December 29, under the headline "Many Companies Report Transactions With Top
 Officers; 'Related Party' Deals Disclosed By 300 Large Corporations; Potential for
 Conflict." The article discussed not the headline-grabbing misdeeds of the scandal era,
 but matters that are routine at America's largest corporations. Often called "related-party
 transactions," they represent deals through which directors or executives receive benefits
 beyond their standard compensation. Of course, there's only one possible source for this
 enrichment: the companies and their shareholders. The Journal and I draw no conclusion
 about whether these things are proper. But they certainly can serve as fodder for
 discussing the performance of stewards. Here are a few examples:

 A company employs or has business ties with 17 relatives of senior officials.
 An executive is reimbursed for making business trips on his airplane.
 A company buys "financial advisory services" from a director's company.
 Directors receive hundreds of thousands of dollars in consulting fees, above and
 beyond their directors' fees. The fees reward the director/consultants for supplying
 "general information" or "maintaining and enhancing the company's strategic
 alignment." In the latter case, the recipient happens to be the company's second-
 biggest shareholder.
 A lawyer serves on a corporate board, and the company gives legal work to his firm.
 The son-in-law of a former board chairman runs a real estate joint venture involving
 the company, to which the company guarantees a minimum level of profitability.
 A company sells an amusement park to its controlling shareholder, with the buyer
 paying half the purchase price in the form of passes to the amusement park he just
 bought.

 The Journal put it succinctly. "All these deals present the risk of conflicts between
 a company official's two roles: representative of the shareholder and individual
 seeking to get the best deal for himself." They raise significant questions:

 Are these deals negotiated at arm's length? Are the terms the best the company can
 get?
 Who negotiates on behalf of the shareholders? How vehemently?
 Where a deal is proposed by a shareholder or shareholder/director with a dominant
 ownership position, who stands up for the minority shareholders?
 How can we be sure director A won't simply vote for director B's excessive deal in
 exchange for director B returning the favor?
 As I mentioned above, there has been no allegation - even in Enron, Tyco and
 Adelphia - of actual director impropriety. Rather, the questions surround the energy
 put into governance.
 After working together for many years, directors develop congenial relationships with
 each other and with the executives. How strongly will they then fight to resist
 questionable transactions between the company and their colleagues?
 Directors' fees can run into the hundreds of thousands, perhaps with stock options
 and perks in addition. Will a director risk this package to fight for some faceless
 shareholders?
 In short, can a director who serves at the pleasure of the chairman police the chairman
 and his other handpicked directors and executives? How can directors be guaranteed
 the independence that shareholders need them to have?

 The industrial economy achieved great strides because of a number of advances, one of
 which was the separation of management from ownership (and the accompanying
 development of a class of professional managers). The caveat, of course, is that
 managers and directors must serve diligently as stewards, protecting the interests of
 the firm's absentee owners. The system only works if the stewards - entrusted with
 responsibility on behalf of others - are up to the task.

 The Bottom Line
 U

 As you prepare your estate plan, you count on fiduciaries - lawyers, accountants,
 executors and trustees - to ensure that your assets will be disposed of as you intend.
 Would you want one of those fiduciaries to buy assets directly from your estate? Rent
 office space to your estate? Employ his relatives to serve your estate, for additional fees?
 Enter into a joint venture with the company you left behind? You'd expect the stewards
 of your estate to be "purer than Caesar's wife." Even with motivations that are
 entirely honorable, it would be impossible for your fiduciaries to simultaneously
 represent themselves and your heirs on opposite sides of a transaction and still
 maintain both the fact and the appearance of fairness. Thus they must content
 themselves with the compensation they've been assigned by you or by law. They must
 resist the temptation to do business with your estate in a way that could benefit them
 further . . . and to possibly move a little from your heirs' pockets to their own. We must
 expect no less from the stewards that we and our companies do business with every day.

 In my memos I try to resist citing Oaktree as the paragon of virtue. But when we
 founded our company, we established an acid test that we routinely rely on to keep us

 on the right track. It was stated in our original brochure in 1995, and it has served us
 well ever since.

 It is our fundamental operating principle that if all of our practices were to
 become known, there must be no one with grounds for complaint.

 To put it more simply, we assume everything we do will show up on "page one"
 some day - that nothing will remain a secret. Will there be a negative reaction?
 Will anyone object? It's a simple test, but it seems every day that the newspapers
 describe someone whose actions could only have been premised on the assumption that
 no one - not media, shareholders, clients, auditors or regulators - would learn the truth.

 Will directors approve of executives' actions? Will shareholders feel that directors did
 their job correctly? Will clients conclude that fiduciaries have put responsibility to them
 ahead of their own interests? We think the standards for stewards' behavior are pretty
 clear cut, which means making these assessments shouldn't be that hard.


Memo: Us and Them.

As a kid, I - and probably you - viewed the world in simple terms. There were good guys and
bad guys. Americans and commies. Cops and robbers. Settlers and redcoats. The Dodgers I
cheered for and the Yankees who always won. Over time my view of the investment
community has settled into an equally clear distinction: us and them.

You've heard a lot from me about the difference between the "I know" school and the "I don't
know" school, concepts I introduced in "What's It All About, Alpha?" (July 2001) and
elaborated on in "The Realist's Creed" (May 2002). In the last few years it has become clear to
me that "we" don't differ from "them" just in terms of how much we think we know about the
future, but in many other ways as well.

Do You Know or Don't You?
U

Most of the investors I've met over the years have belonged to the "I know" school. This was
particularly true in 1968-78, when I analyzed equities, and even in 1978-95, when I had
switched to non-mainstream investments but still worked at equity-centric money management
firms.

It's easy to identify members of the "I know" school:

 They think knowledge of the future direction of economies, interest rates, markets and
 widely followed mainstream stocks is essential for investment success.
 They're confident it can be achieved.
 They know they can do it.
 They're aware that lots of other people are trying to do it too, but they figure either (a)
 everyone can be successful at the same time, or (b) only a few can be, but they're among
 them.
 They're comfortable investing based on their opinions regarding the future.
 They're also glad to share their views with others, even though correct forecasts should be
 of such great value that no one would give them away gratis.
 They rarely look back to rigorously assess their record as forecasters.

"Confident" is the key word for describing members of this school. For the "I don't know"
school, on the other hand, the word - especially when dealing with the macro-future - is
"guarded." Its adherents generally believe you can't know the future; you don't have to
know the future; and the proper goal is to do the best possible job of investing in the
absence of that knowledge.

UThe Benefits of Membership

As a member of the "I know" school, you get to opine on the future (and maybe have people
take notes). You may be sought out for your opinions and considered a desirable dinner guest
. . . especially when the stock market's going up.

Join the "I don't know" school and the results are more mixed. You'll soon tire of saying "I
don't know" to friends and strangers alike. After a while, even relatives will stop asking where
you think the market's going. You'll never get to enjoy that 1-in-1,000 moment when your
forecast comes true and the Wall Street Journal runs your picture. On the other hand, you'll be
spared all those times when forecasts miss the mark, as well as the losses that can result from
investing based on over-rated knowledge of the future. But how do you think it feels to have
prospective clients ask about your investment outlook and have to say, "I have no idea"?

For me, the bottom line on which school is best comes from the late Stanford behaviorist, Amos
Tversky: "It's frightening to think that you might not know something, but more
frightening to think that, by and large, the world is run by people who have faith that they
know exactly what's going on."

0BU "A group of related or coincident things, events, actions, etc."

Random House's secondary definition for the word "syndrome," shown above, suggests a set of
elements that can be viewed separately but take on greater meaning when considered together.
And the more I think about it, the more I see such a pattern in the contrasting styles of
investment industry participants.

Investors don't just differ in regard to their views on foreknowledge, but in terms of a large
number of elements. And the pattern among those elements seems to be consistent - correlated
- not random. Ask yourself, for example, whether the "I don't know" school is evenly divided
between bulls and bears. Maybe, but in my experience, members of the "I don't know" school
tend to trust less in the market than those of the "I know" school. That's an example of the
pattern, or syndrome, that I think investors tend to demonstrate in many regards.

In my memo "Returns and How They Get That Way" (November 2002), I gave examples from
a brilliant dichotomization propounded by Nicholas Taleeb. His book, "Fooled By
Randomness," has as its theme the pervasive role of luck in investing and the tendency of
people to overlook its effect. He provides a table that shows a number of things in the first
column that can easily be mistaken for things in the second column.

 Luck Skill
 Randomness Determinism
 Probability Certainty
 Belief, conjecture Knowledge, certitude
 Theory Reality
 Anecdote, coincidence Causality, law
 Survivorship bias Market outperformance
 Lucky idiot Skilled investor

My point here, and my reason for reproducing part of Taleeb's table, is my belief that there are
people who see the things on the left, and there are people who see the things on the right,
but few who see some of each. Some people think their ability to infer causality and analyze
data makes them skilled investors capable of producing consistent outperformance. Others
understand that luck plays a big part; that a lot of apparent causality is really coincidence; and
that the person crowned the most skilled investor in a given year might be nothing more than a
"lucky idiot." Very few people mix aspects from both columns.

I can think of many qualities that seem to go together to define one of the two main types
of investor but not the other. I'll discuss them below and attribute them to either the
"Oaktree-style" investors with whom I tend to associate - "us" - or the other sort of investor -
"them."

 Personality Type

It would be great to either be middle-of-the-road and dispassionate all the time or, better yet,
bullish or bearish at just the right time. But few people can achieve either of those ideals. Most
investors are congenitally either bullish or bearish, and I've never seen anyone capable of
flipping in an adroit and timely manner from one to the other. For most of us, it's either bullish
most of the time or bearish most of the time - right or wrong.

For many of the outstanding investors I've come across, it's the latter. And I shouldn't say
bearish - I've just used that word as shorthand for a number of others. But the "us-style"
investor tends to be cautious and defensive, while the "they-style" investor tends to be
optimistic, confident and aggressive.

And the investors I like most are patient. Because they know they can't be right every time,
their real concern is with the long run. On the other hand, the "I know" investor feels he has a
good handle on what lies ahead and thus plans to do an above-average job every year - an
admirable goal, perhaps, but I don't think highly achievable.

 Hunt for Upside or Avoid Downside?

One of the most significant ways in which these differences manifest themselves is in terms of
attitude toward risk. If you're confident that you know what the future holds, risk isn't
frightening. But if you're convinced that you don't have that good a handle on the future, it's
hard to be very cocky.

Our kind of investor is preoccupied by risk, whereas I think the other is often oblivious to it.
Our kind worries about what can go wrong, while the other revels in what might go right. Ours
tries to avoid mistakes, and the other concentrates on finding winners. Ours obsesses about
the losers he might buy or hold, while the other dwells on the opportunities he might miss.
In short, it's offense versus defense.

 Other Aspects of Investment Style

The optimist tends more often than not to be a growth investor; he's confident that above-
average growth can be perpetuated and that he can identify the companies that'll do so. The
more cautious investor looks for value - for tangible attributes that can be counted on for price
support even if confidence in the company proves to be unwarranted.

Our school of investing puts great emphasis on being a contrarian. If you want to buy
something of solid value, and you want to buy it for less than it's worth, you'll have a better
chance if you look among assets, companies and markets that are out of favor. Thus we're
happiest when we're not part of the herd; we prefer to watch the herd's extreme boom-bust
behavior and profit from its mistakes. Most other investors seem to be happy when they're part
of the herd and following the trend.

Our kind of investor likes to average down. He holds a firm view of his securities' value and
wants to increase his holdings at lower prices. Thus he likes to see prices decline (although he's
not cocky enough to completely dismiss the possibility that the market's right rather than him).
The trend follower wants to see appreciation and is disheartened by initial declines. In fact, I
think he prefers to average up as appreciation validates his thesis.

Certain that his forecasts are right and his portfolio is properly positioned, the "I know" investor
wants to let his profits ride. The "I don't know" investor is painfully aware of how much he
doesn't know; how much of his performance is beyond his control; that good fortune may have
contributed to his results to date; and that events can easily turn against him. Thus he's happy
taking profits and banking some of his gains. If appreciation occurs beyond his expectations, it
makes him stop and think . . . and maybe sell, not just celebrate.

The "we" investor is comfortable holding cash when he can't find attractive investments. At the
present time, a number of the investors I most respect are holding or returning significant
amounts of cash, or closing their funds. The confident "them" investor is pained by cash - he
thinks he always should be able to find something worth buying. And he tends to be more
relative-return oriented, and thus worried that an index or competitor might beat him if he isn't
fully invested.

I see an extreme dichotomy in the fact that the "us" investor worries about losing money, while
the other worries about underperforming. (I can't claim to be 100% the former, because I - and
most of Oaktree's clients - think that in the long run, the best manager is the one who beats the
others. That's something that's hard to argue with. But my desire for relative performance
doesn't make me comfortable with losses.)

Lastly, because the "I don't know" investor is highly conscious of his limitations, he is likely to
aggressively limit his assets under management. Most of the "I know" investors, who tend to
work in the more liquid mainstream markets, never met a dollar of AUM they didn't like - or
didn't feel they could achieve great things with.

UAttitudes Toward the Market

The actions of "they" investors are often driven by their views regarding the outlook for the
market. They invest more aggressively when the outlook's positive than they do when it's
negative (although, as I said before, they're usually positive). "We" investors tend to invest
from the bottom up, primarily basing investment decisions on whether attractive individual
investment opportunities are available.

In fact, I'm often struck by the fact that "they" are preoccupied with studying and assessing the
behavior of "the market" - which collectively means studying themselves. My favorite
investors - both inside and outside Oaktree - spend their time almost exclusively looking into
individual companies and their securities.

One of the greatest dichotomies is that "they" impute intelligence to the market while "we" are
highly skeptical of it. Trillions of dollars were lost after 1998-99 because the mass of investors
hadn't sufficiently questioned the valuations of tech stocks. They'd been told, "The market's
efficient" and assumed that if a stock was selling at a price, that meant the price was justified.
The investors I respect feel the market's often wrong - either underpricing or overpricing
securities - and more than anything else, they look for opportunities to profit from those
errors. In their view, as Dickens said about the law, "the market's an ass."

4BU So Where Do We Stand Today?

The market is a big arena where optimists and pessimists engage in a tug of war. When
optimism is rising relative to pessimism, meaning more money wants to get put to work than
wants to exit, prices rise (and vice versa). The market has been going roughly sideways for the
last few months, meaning the two camps are in rough balance. But that doesn't mean they're
not both out there.

Everyone had a great year in 2003, and "they" seem to think it's going to continue. They're
cheered by signs of economic recovery, corporate profit gains and job growth. "We," on the
other hand, worry about the things that could result in disappointment, like the lackluster
economic and employment gains, and the trade and budget deficits. We also worry about
structural issues, such as the US's reliance on foreign capital, the questionable outlook for the
dollar, and the consumer's high level of indebtedness and low level of savings. Lastly, we feel
the possibility of domestic terrorism hangs out there like a sword of Damocles.

A particularly striking difference can be seen in current attitudes toward interest rates.
Rates do a great deal to influence the vitality of the economy and the price and relative
attractiveness of market sectors. Today's low rates encourage growth and borrowing. They
also reduce the competition to stocks posed by bonds and money market securities. Finally,
since interest rates are used in present value calculations to discount future cash flows, lower
interest rates result in higher valuations for all assets.

Obviously, then, today's record low rates go a long way to explaining what's going on in the
investment world. With money market securities yielding 1% and Treasury notes at 3-4%,
yields of 6-8% on high yield bonds look attractive; market-neutral hedge funds look like a
bonanza at 9-11%; and expectations of 15-20% are enough to attract money to private equity

(rather than the old 25-30%). Just as importantly, low interest rates lower the hurdle return for
equities and justify p/e ratios in the high 20s.

What sums it up is the line that "stocks aren't overpriced given the current level of
interest rates." "They" derive comfort from the fact that today's valuations are consistent with
today's rates, while "we" worry about the impact on valuations that a rise in rates would have.

Rates can't go down all that much, but there's plenty of room for them to go up. (I still
have the framed notice from 1980 telling me that the rate on my bank loan had reached 221⁄4%!)
That tells me that p/e ratios can't rationally go up much more but there's plenty of room
for them to go down. And if we ignore the threat of a rate rise and merely assume that rates
will hold steady, the resulting return on the average stock would be just in line with normal
profits growth in mid-single digits.

So the optimist is cheered by the low rates (and their stimulative power), and the pessimist is
concerned about the risk implicit in a possible rate rise. Or, as it seems to me, "we" worry
about valuations and "they" feel comfortable on the subject . . . as usual.

 How About an Example

Rather than hold up my Oaktree colleagues as exemplars of astute "us-style" investors (which I
think they are), I'd like to propose an unnamed investor for your consideration. I'll tick off his
credentials for inclusion (as I see them) and throw in a few quotes from his recent writings.

 He never bases his investment actions on forecasts for the economy or market. ". . . the
 cemetery for seers has a huge section set aside for macro forecasters. We have in fact made
 few macro forecasts . . , and we have seldom seen others make them with sustained
 success."

 Rather, his actions are strictly determined by the availability of attractive investment
 opportunities. "Under any market or economic conditions, we will be happy to buy
 businesses that meet our standards."

 He's a solid investor in value - be it derived from current cash flow, unique market position
 or special human resources.

 Because of his risk awareness and desire to avoid losers, he always insists on a generous
 "margin of safety."

 He is absolutely unconcerned if an index or competitor outperforms him for a year or two,
 but he insists on avoiding losses. Losing less than his competitors is not his definition of
 success.

 When attractive investment opportunities are few, he's willing to stand at the plate with the
 bat on his shoulder - something he says he's doing a lot of nowadays. In 2003, that caused
 his holdings of cash to triple. "Our capital is underutilized now . . . . It's a painful
 condition to be in - but not as painful as doing something stupid."

 He seems happiest when betting against the herd. For example, on the subject of distressed
 bonds, he says "yesterday's weeds" (which yielded 30-50% in 2002), are being priced as
 "today's flowers" (and thus yielding 4-6%). He's written me that he "liked them better
 when they were weeds."

 Certainly he's a patient long-term investor (and, in fact, not much of a profit taker; he
 U U

 recently expressed some regret about having not sold during The Great Bubble).

 He is very conscious of the effect of increased capital on investment returns. "When [a
 manager] tells you that increased funds won't hurt his investment performance, step back:
 His nose is about to grow."

There are lots of ways to skin the cat, and certainly there are successful investors among
"them." But the characteristics enumerated above have provided the foundation for
Warren Buffett's incredible record, and that makes them good enough for me.

 * * *

To help you see the picture I'm suggesting and evaluate the investors you come across, I've
prepared the quick-and-dirty checklist that appears on the following page. Few people will hit
every point on the head, but I think you'll recognize in the list on the left a lot of the "they"
school investors you know, and on the right, hopefully, a few from the "us" school. Each year
- especially in good times - the headlines will go to those on the left who guess correctly.
But in the long run I think it's people on the right who'll be celebrated most.

In today's trend toward hedge funds, I see a growing preference - whether conscious or
unconscious - for "us" investors over "them." Consistent, risk-conscious, non-market-
based investing is enjoying great popularity right now. I've considered it the ticket for
almost three decades.

And by the way, I have one last thing to say: vive la difference!! In order for us to be
 U U

contrarians, there has to be someone to be contrary to. If everyone invested our way, the
opportunities we prize would be few and far between. The best opportunities for investment
returns aren't created by companies, exchanges or paper securities; they result from the
mistakes other investors make. It's Oaktree's job to take advantage of them.

P.s.: As I wrote this memo, one thing pained me, and I want to address it: I found myself
constantly writing "he," even though I absolutely do not think investing skill is gender-related.
It's just that I hate the thought of using "he/she" each time. (My son Andrew's school uses
s/he.) And I find ungrammatical today's popular, gender-neutral formulation that "the top-
performing investor finds that their gains come from hard work" - a plural pronoun substituting
for a singular noun. So please bear with me; I'm really an equal opportunity memo writer.

 UTHEM U US
 U U

"I know" "I don't know"
Bullish by nature Bearish by nature
Aggressive Defensive
Confident Guarded
Comfortable with risk Obsessed with risk
What might go right? What might go wrong?
Worried about winners missed Worried about losers bought
Trend followers Contrarians
Attracted to pretty flowers Glad to search among the weeds
Comfortable when part of the crowd Happy when apart from the crowd
Growth/momentum investors Value investors
"Great things cost a lot" Insistent on buying cheap
Believers Skeptics
"We're in a new era" "Trees don't grow to the sky"
Cheered by appreciation Frightened by excessive appreciation
Enjoy averaging up Enjoy averaging down
"Let it ride" Eager to take profits
Relative return-oriented Absolute return-oriented
Worried about underperforming Worried about losing money
Pained by cash Comfortable with cash
Confident in their powers Aware that much is beyond their control
Convinced that their good returns Highly conscious of the role
 are fully deserved played by luck
Impatient Patient
Short term-fixated Long term-oriented
Never worried by large amounts Aware that it's possible to have
 of capital too much capital
Engrossed in watching the market Devoted to watching companies
"The market's efficient" "The market's an ass"

Everything's okay:
U U U Worries abound: U

Economic recovery underway Movement of jobs overseas
Corporate profit gains Gaping trade deficit
Increases in productivity Growing budget deficit
Continuing foreign investment Reliance on foreign capital
Ability of weak dollar to bolster exports Threat to value of the dollar
Existence of job growth Halting nature of job growth
Optimism implied by willingness to borrow Consumers' high debt/low savings
Strong military capability Risk of terrorism
Low level of interest rates Risk of interest rate rise
Today's security prices are justified Today's security prices are reliant
 by low rates on rates staying low


Memo: The Happy Medium.

My second general memo to clients was dated April 11, 1991 and imaginatively titled "First Quarter
Performance." It primarily discussed the swing of the market pendulum. I may be biased, but I'm
pleased with what it says and, thirteen years later, wouldn't change a word.

 The mood swings of the securities markets resemble the movement of a pendulum.
 Although the midpoint of its arc best describes the location of the pendulum "on
 average," it actually spends very little of its time there. Instead, it is almost always
 swinging toward or away from the extremes of its arc. But whenever the pendulum
 is near either extreme, it is inevitable that it will move back toward the midpoint
 sooner or later. In fact, it is the movement toward the extreme itself that supplies the
 energy for the swing back.

 Investment markets make the same pendulum-like swing:

 between euphoria and depression,
 between celebrating positive developments and obsessing over negatives,
 and thus
 between overpriced and underpriced.

 This oscillation is one of the most dependable features of the investment world, and
 investor psychology seems to spend much more time at the extremes than it
 does at the "happy medium." (Emphasis added)

Although I've learned a great deal in the time since that memo was published, I still think the
paragraphs excerpted above capture almost the entire essence of market movements.

I continue to believe that cycles are inevitable, often profound, and the most reliable feature of
the business and investment worlds. In November 2001 I wrote a memo on this subject entitled
"You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." (It didn't generate any reader reaction, even though I
thought its contents were important.) The memo discussed some of the cycles that affect the
investor:

 The economic cycle evidences moderate fluctuations (although their impact can be profound).
 Viewed on a long-term graph, it looks like a gentle wave.

 The business cycle responds to developments in the economy with a more pronounced effect,
 rising and falling as consumers and businesses loosen and tighten their purse strings.

 The profits cycle reflects an exaggerated reaction to changes in the amount of business
 companies are doing, primarily because of the twin influences of operating leverage (such that

 operating profits change more than revenues) and financial leverage (such that net income
 changes more than operating profits).

 The credit cycle moves dramatically, usually oscillating between periods when the capital
 markets are wide open and periods when they're slammed shut.

 The market cycle reacts violently, as investor psychology magnifies all of the above. Security
 prices yo-yo in what can often be described as extreme over-reaction.

Everyone's aware of these cycles and their influence on the markets, but it's important that their
essence and origin be thoroughly understood. For me that means delving into human nature and
emotion. The theme of this memo will be that the cyclical phenomena that so heavily influence
our investment outcomes aren't caused by the operation of institutions or physical laws.
Rather, they largely result from people's frailties and excesses. A thorough understanding of
these things can increase an investor's ability to achieve gains and avoid losses.

 Greed or Fear

When I was a rookie analyst, we heard all the time that "the stock market is driven by greed and
fear." When the market environment is in healthy balance, a tug-of-war takes place between
optimists intent on making money and pessimists seeking to avoid losses. The former want to buy
stocks, even if they have to pay a price a bit above yesterday's close, and the latter want to sell
them, even if it's on a downtick.

When the market doesn't go anyplace, it's because the sentiment behind this tug-of-war is evenly
divided, and the people - or feelings - on the two ends of the rope carry roughly equal weight. The
optimists may prevail for a while, but as securities are bid up they become more highly priced, and
then the pessimists gain sway and sell them down. The result is a market that rises or falls
moderately if at all - not unlike the experience so far this year. For example, as The Wall Street
Journal wrote on May 17,

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average has been down for three weeks in a row, . . .
 Still, a determined group of optimists has refused to throw in the towel, stepping in
 to buy what they view as cheap stocks whenever prices began to plummet. On
 Wednesday, when the Dow Industrials fell as low as 9852.19 during the day, these
 people began to buy, pushing the blue-chip average back above 10000.

 Two forces continue to compete in the market: those who believe that the current
 skittishness will end once investors get used to the idea of rising interest rates, and
 those who think further stock declines are inevitable.

It didn't take long in my early days, however, for me to realize that often the market is driven by
greed or fear. At the times that really count, large numbers of people leave one end of the rope for
 U U

the other. Either the greedy or the fearful predominate, and they move the market dramatically.
When there's only greed and no fear, for example, everyone wants to buy, no one wants to sell,
and few people can think of reasons why prices shouldn't rise. And so they do - often in leaps
and bounds and with no apparent governor.

Clearly that's what happened to tech stocks in 1999. Greed was the dominant characteristic of that
market. Those who weren't participating were forced to watch everyone else get rich. "Prudent
investors" were rewarded with a feeling of stupidity. The buyers moving that market felt no fear.
"There's a new paradigm," was the battle cry, "get on board before you miss the boat. And by the
way, the price I'm buying at can't be excessive, because the market's always efficient." Everyone
perceived a virtuous cycle in favor of tech stocks to which there could be no end.

But eventually, something changes. Either a stumbling block materializes, or a prominent
company reports a problem, or an exogenous factor intrudes. Prices can even fall under their
own weight or based on a downturn in psychology with no obvious cause. Certainly no one I
know can say exactly what it was that burst the tech stock bubble in 2000. But somehow the greed
evaporated and fear took over. "Buy before you miss out" was replaced by "Sell before it goes to
zero."

And thus fear comes into the ascendancy. People don't worry about missing opportunities;
they worry about losing money. Irrational exuberance is replaced by excessive caution. Whereas
in 1999 pie-in-the-sky forecasts for a decade out were embraced warmly, in 2002 investors
chastened by the corporate scandals said, "I'll never trust management again" and "How can I be
sure any financial statements are accurate?" Thus almost no one wanted to buy the bonds of the
scandal-plagued companies, for example, and they sunk to giveaway prices. It's from the
extremes of the cycle of fear and greed that arise the greatest investment profits, as distressed
debt demonstrated last year.

 Risk Tolerance or Risk Aversion

In my opinion, the greed/fear cycle is caused by changing attitudes toward risk. When
greed is prevalent, it means investors feel a high level of comfort with risk and the idea
of bearing it in the interest of profit. Conversely, widespread fear indicates a high level
of aversion to risk. The academics consider investors' attitude toward risk a constant, but
certainly it fluctuates greatly.

Finance theory is heavily dependent on the assumption that investors are risk-averse.
That is, they "disprefer" risk and must be induced - bribed - to bear it. That's the
reason why the capital market line slopes upward to the right: investors have to be offered
higher expected returns in order to induce them to make investments entailing higher risk.
Of course, these higher returns can't be a sure thing, because in that case the investments
wouldn't actually be riskier. So the higher expected returns have to be accompanied by
greater uncertainty (a broader dispersion of possible outcomes) or higher actual risk of
losing money.

But there are times when investors ignore the uncertainty and risk of loss associated
with higher possible returns and pursue them too avidly. In 1996, I asked a consultant
why his firm was one of the few that didn't recommend Oaktree's high yield bond
management. His answer was simple: "We're trying to maximize risk, and we can't do that
with you." Of course, that answer was shorthand for something that made a little more
sense: that in theory the way to increase return is to bear more risk, and he thought Oaktree's

portfolios didn't contain enough risk to be top performers. In other words, he was saying,
"risk is our friend."

It just can't work that way! Dependably high returns from risky investments are an
oxymoron. But there are times when this caveat is ignored; when people get too
comfortable with risk; and thus when securities prices incorporate a premium for
bearing risk that is inadequate to compensate for the risk that's present.

The prevalence of risk-tolerance (or risk-obliviousness) in the late 1990s was clear. I
personally heard a prominent brokerage house strategist say, "Stocks are overpriced, but not
enough to keep them from being a buy." And we all heard the man on the street say "I'm up
so much in my 401(k), it wouldn't bother me if it fell by a third." (Where was that guy two
or three years later?)

No, those risk-tolerant attitudes will not persist forever. Eventually, something will
intrude, exposing securities' imperfections and too-high prices. Prices will decline.
Investors will like them less at $60 than they did at $100. Fear of losing the remaining $60
will overtake the urge to make back the lost $40. Risk aversion eventually will reassert
itself (and usually go to excess).

How about some quantification of this cycle? In mid-1998, just before the collapse of Long-
Term Capital Management brought investors other than techies to their senses, only $12.5
billion of non-defaulted bonds yielded more than 20% (one possible threshold for the label
"distressed debt"). Because investors weren't very worried about risk, they demanded ultra-
high returns from relatively few non-defaulted bonds; the word "blithe" might best describe
their attitude.

But Long-Term's demise awakened investors to the existence of risk, and a year later, the
amount of bonds yielding more than 20% had more than tripled to $38.7 billion. By mid-
2002, when the corporate scandals held the debt market in a grip of terror, the 20% yielders
had grown to $105.6 billion, eight and a half times the level just four years earlier. Risk
aversion had come a long way from inadequate and, as later events showed, had become
excessive. By March 31, 2004, this figure had fallen 85%, to just $16.2 billion; risk
aversion had subsided (and possibly had become inadequate again). I'm sure that
fundamentals didn't fluctuate anywhere near the degree reflected in prices, yields and thus
the distressed debt tally. As usual, reality was greatly exaggerated by swings in psychology.

When investors in general are too risk-tolerant, security prices can embody more risk than they do
return. When investors are too risk-averse, prices can offer more return than risk. For me, Warren
Buffett's quote best sums up this phenomenon and the contrarian position that is required as a result:
"The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with
which we should conduct our own affairs."

 Full or Empty

One of the most volatile cycles relates to the willingness of investors to interpret events
positively or negatively. Forget the traditional half measures; investors see their glass
completely full at some times and totally empty at others.

It isn't nonsensical for assets to be viewed differently at different times. After all, almost everything
incorporates elements of both good and bad. But there are times when investors seem to look only
at the positives or only at the negatives. As a result, there are times when there seems to be no
price so high that investors won't pay it, and these inevitably are followed by times when no
price is low enough to convince people to buy.

This oscillation - from viewing a security, a company or an investment technique as "flawless" to
viewing it as "worthless" - has occurred several times during my time in the investment business,
with the predictable effect on prices.

This "full-or-empty" phenomenon is particularly apparent in media savants' explanations for each
day's market movement. In "up" times, a strong report on consumer income is interpreted as
fueling corporate sales and profits, and thus is used to explain rising stock prices. In "down" times,
on the other hand, the same report may be cited as a cause of inflationary pressure, rising interest
rates, lower p/e ratios, and thus declining stock prices.

Valuing the Future - Credence or Skepticism
U

Some investors spend their time working hard to quantify this year's earnings and the growth
thereafter. Others strive to value real assets, intellectual property and business advantages (and
predict what others will pay for them). Still others try to deduce the value implications of mergers
and acquisitions, balance sheet restructurings and private-to-public transactions. In all of these
ways and many more, it's the job of those in the investment business to predict the future and
put a value on it.

In 2000-01, our distressed debt funds invested a few hundred million dollars in bankrupt telecom
companies. In each case, the purchase price implied a value for the company that was a small

fraction of the amounts that had been invested in hard assets such as switching gear or fiber-optic
cable. If we could resell the equipment for a higher percentage of its cost than we had paid, the
investment would be profitable.

The first sale went well, and we made a quick 50%. But soon thereafter, people stopped showing up
to bid on these assets. Whereas the party to whom we had sold the first company thought he had a
bargain, in later instances the possible buyers shied away from assets that were turning out to be in
heavy oversupply. And that brings me to my point. In 1999, investors accepted at face value their
telecom companies' rosy predictions of the future and paid handily for that potential. In 2001, they
saw the potential as largely empty and wouldn't pay a dime for it, given that the industry's capacity
vastly exceeded its current needs and no one could imagine the excess being absorbed in their
lifetime. This cycle in investors' willingness to value the future is one of the most powerful
that exists.

A simple metaphor relating to real estate helped me to understand this phenomenon: What's an
empty building worth? An empty building (a) has a replacement value, of course, but it (b) throws
off no revenues and (c) costs money to own, in the form of taxes, insurance, minimum maintenance,
interest payments, and opportunity costs. In other words, it's a cash drain. When investors are in a
pessimistic mood and can't see more than a few years out, they can only think about the negative
cash flows and are unable to imagine a time when the building will be rented and profitable. But
when the mood turns up and interest in future potential runs high, investors envision it full of
tenants, throwing off vast amounts of cash, and thus salable at a fancy price.

Fluctuation in investors' willingness to ascribe value to possible future developments represents a
variation on the full-or-empty cycle. Its swings are enormously powerful and mustn't be
underestimated.

Value Investing vs. Growth Investing - (or Value Today vs. Value Tomorrow)
U

Interest in "value investing" versus "growth investing" is another phenomenon that fluctuates over
time, with the relative popularity of growth investing based heavily on investors' willingness to
value the future. It's not just a random fad, but a reflection of a cycle in attitudes.

In my view, all investors try to buy value - that is, to buy something for less than it'll turn out to be
worth. The difference between the two principal schools of investing can be boiled down to this:

 "Value investors" buy stocks (even those whose intrinsic value may show little
 growth in the future) out of conviction that the current value is high relative to the
 current price.

 "Growth investors" buy stocks (even those whose current value is low relative to
 their current price) because they believe the value will grow fast enough in the future
 to produce substantial appreciation.

Thus, it seems to me, the choice isn't really between value and growth, but between
value today and value tomorrow. Growth investing represents a bet on company
performance that may or may not materialize in the future, while value investing is based
primarily on analysis of a company's current worth.

Certainly much of the fluctuation in the performance of one school versus the other stems
from their relative price attractiveness: one group of stocks may be perceived as the cheaper
of the two and thus begin to be bought more strongly. This buying makes it appreciate
relative to the other until it gets ahead price-wise, and then it declines (or at least pauses)
while the other catches up.

But the two schools' relative performance also depends to a great extent on attitudes that
fluctuate cyclically. Optimistic growth investors with big dreams for the future bid up the
stocks of companies that they expect to exhibit rapid growth, as they did in 1998-99.
Eventually their buying power is spent, their hopes are dashed, or their optimism wanes.
Then value investors with their more limited expectations regarding the future have their day
in less buoyant times, as they did in 2000-01.

Selling Panic (and Its Less-Recognized Brother)
U

As the pendulum makes its periodic swing from positive to negative, the resurgence of fear,
risk aversion, and attention to things missing from the glass combine to bring down prices.
Most investors see their resolve evaporate, along with all their reasons for holding the things
in their portfolios. They go from being confident partisans, to worriers, eventually to sellers
- and sometimes to panic sellers.

In November 2000, I wrote about "A Framework for Understanding Market Crisis," an
insightful article by Richard Bookstaber, then of Moore Capital Management, that analyzed
the behavior of panic sellers. Rather than reinvent the wheel, I'll excerpt from my earlier
memo:

 Most people think security price movements result primarily from the market's discounting of
 information about corporate, economic or geopolitical events - so-called "fundamentals." If
 you sit with a trader, however, it's easy to observe that prices are always moving in response to
 things other than fundamental information.

 Bookstaber says, "the principal reason for intraday price movement is the demand for liquidity .
 . . . In place of the conventional academic perspective of the role of the market, in which the
 market is efficient and exists solely for informational purposes, this view is that the role of the
 market is to provide immediacy for liquidity demanders . . . . By accepting the notion that
 markets exist to satisfy liquidity demand and liquidity supply, the framework is in place
 for understanding what causes market crises, which are the times when liquidity and
 immediacy matter most."

 "Liquidity demanders are demanders of immediacy." I would describe them as holders of assets
 in due course, such as investors and hedgers, who from time to time have a strong need to adjust
 their positions. When there's urgency, "the defining characteristic is that time is more important
 than price . . . . they need to get the trade done immediately and are willing to pay to do so."

 Usually when the price of something falls, fewer people want to sell it and more want to buy it.
 But in a crisis, "market prices become countereconomic," and the reverse becomes true. "A

 falling price, instead of deterring people from selling, triggers a growing flood of selling,
 and instead of attracting buyers, a falling price drives potential buyers from the market
 (or, even worse, turns potential buyers into sellers.)" This phenomenon can occur for
 reasons ranging from transactional (they receive margin calls) to emotional (they just get
 scared). The liquidity demanders increase in number, and they become more highly motivated.

 In times of crisis, liquidity suppliers become scarce. Maybe they spent their capital in the first
 10% decline and are out of powder. Maybe the market's increased volatility and decreased
 liquidity have reduced the price they're willing to pay. And maybe they're scared, too.
 "Information did not cause the dramatic price volatility. It was caused by the crisis-
 induced demand for liquidity at a time that liquidity suppliers were shrinking from the
 market."

Speaking of panics, we all recognize the carnage that occurs when the desire to sell far exceeds the
willingness to buy. But I think Bookstaber's analysis applies equally to the opposite - times when
the desire to buy outstrips the willingness to sell. It amounts to a "buying panic" and represents no
less of a crisis, even though - because the immediate result is profit rather than loss - it is discussed
in different terms. Certainly 1999 was just as much a year of irrational, liquidity-driven crisis

And clearly, both selling panics and buying panics have more to do with extreme swings in
emotion and urgency than they do with fundamental corporate and economic developments.

The Credit Cycle

I couldn't leave the subject of cycles without touching on one of the most pronounced, the credit
cycle. From time to time, providers of capital simply turn the spigot on or off - as in so many
things, to excess. There are times when anyone can get any amount of capital for any purpose, and
times when even the most deserving borrowers can't access reasonable amounts for worthwhile
projects. The behavior of the capital markets is a great indicator of where we stand in terms of
psychology and a great contributor to the supply of investment bargains.

The level of security issuance varies over time in a wave-like pattern, and the swing from high years
to low years can be great. I don't believe a high level of issuance says much about the desire of
companies to raise money; usually they'll take all that's available. Rather, a high level of issuance
indicates a willingness on the part of investors to buy increased amounts of securities, something
that varies greatly depending on their mood.

But equally important is the trend in the quality of new issue securities. It is my belief that a
willingness to buy new securities in greater quantity invariably is accompanied by a
willingness to buy securities of lower quality. Thus lower standards go hand in hand with higher
amounts of issuance. When investors are chastened and afraid, they'll buy very few new securities,
and only those of high quality. When they're euphoric and confident, they'll buy greater quantities
and attend less to matters of quality and downside protection. In the most overheated markets,
when being underinvested is considered the biggest mistake one can make, buyers compete for
new issues by paying higher prices and by demanding less in terms of quality and safety.

It's in this way that the swing of the capital market pendulum to one extreme provides the energy
for the swing back toward the other. For example, with terrified high yield bond investors hugging
the sidelines in 1990-91, low issuance and a great degree of investor selectivity set the stage for low
subsequent default rates and excellent portfolio performance. Double-digit returns in 1991-97 (save
1994) turned investors from cautious to confident and attracted increased capital for investment in
high yield bonds. These conditions led to the issuance of bonds in greater quantity and lower
quality in 1997-99. And, of course, that issuance contributed to record default rates in 2001-02, to
great portfolio losses, and eventually to enormous returns on the rebound. And so the cycle goes on.

From the depths reached in the summer of 2002, the recovery of investor sentiment has been
dramatic in both its extent and its speed. And with that recovery has come yet another dramatic
swing of the capital cycle from restrictive to accommodating. Again as seen through the example of
high yield bonds, the last eighteen months have witnessed a near-record amount of new bond
issuance, including a large number of CCC-rated bonds, bonds with weak covenants, and bonds
issued to fund payments to equity holders.

All net debt incurrence adds to a company's riskiness, in that it increases balance sheet leverage.
But at minimum the proceeds, or assets bought with the proceeds, should stay within the company.
When debt is raised and the proceeds go out the door without enhancing the value of the company, a
transaction should be viewed with a particularly critical eye. The fact that a substantial number of
bonds-for-dividends deals could be done in recent months says a lot about where we stand in the
credit cycle . . . and about the likelihood that some of these deals will be grist for distressed debt
investment in the future.

Looking for the cause of a market extreme usually requires rewinding the videotape of the credit
cycle a few months or years. Most raging bull markets are abetted by an upsurge in the willingness
to provide capital, usually imprudently. Likewise, most collapses are preceded by a wholesale
refusal to finance certain companies, industries, or the entire gamut of would-be financers.

The capital market oscillates between wide open and slammed shut. It creates the potential
for eventual bargain investments when it provides capital to companies that shouldn't get it,
and it turns that potential into reality when it pulls the rug out from under those companies by
refusing them further financing. It always has, and it always will.

Just Give Me My 10%
U

Putting it all together, the fluctuations in attitudes and behavior described above combine to make
the stock market the ultimate pendulum. In my 34 full calendar years in the investment business,
starting with 1970, the annual returns on the S&P 500 have swung from plus 37% to minus 26%.
Averaging out good years and bad years, the long-run return is usually stated as 10% or so.
Everyone's been happy with that typical performance and would love more of the same.

But remember, a swinging pendulum may be at its midpoint "on average," but it actually
spends very little time there. The same is true of financial market performance. Here's a fun
question (and a good illustration): for how many of the 34 years from 1970 through 2003 was
the annual return on the S&P 500 within plus or minus 2% of "normal" - that is, between 8%
and 12%?

I expected the answer to be "not that often," but I was surprised to learn that it had happened only
 U

once ! It also surprised me to learn that the return had been more than 20 percentage points away
 U

from "normal" - either up more than 30% or down more than 10% - two-thirds of the time: 22 out
of the last 34 years. So one thing that can be said with conviction about stock market performance
is that the average certainly isn't the norm. Market fluctuations of this magnitude aren't nearly
fully explained by the changing fortunes of companies, industries or economies. They're largely
attributable to the mood swings of investors.

Lastly, the times when return is at the extremes aren't randomly distributed over the years. Rather
they're clustered, due to the fact that investors' psychological swings tend to persist for a while - to
paraphrase Herb Stein, they tend to continue until they stop. Not one of those 22 extreme up or
down years was more than a year away from another year of similarly extreme performance in the
same direction.

 * * *

So from time to time we see rabid buyers or terrified sellers; urgency to get in or to get out;
overheated markets or ice-cold markets; and prices unsustainably high or ridiculously low.
Certainly the markets, and investor attitudes and behavior, spend only a small portion of the
time at "the happy medium."

What does this say about how we should act? Joining the herd and participating in the extremes of
these cycles obviously can be dangerous to your financial health. The markets' extreme highs are
created when avid buyers are in control, pushing prices to levels that may never be seen again.
The lows are created when panicky sellers predominate, willing to part with assets at prices
that often turn out to have been grossly inadequate.

"Buy low, sell high" is the time-honored dictum, but investors who are swept up in market
cycles too often do just the opposite. The proper response lies in contrarian behavior: buy when
they hate 'em, and sell when they love 'em. "Once-in-a-lifetime" market extremes seem to occur
just once in a decade or so - not often enough to build an investment career around capitalizing on
them. But attempting to do so should be an important component of any investor's approach.

Just don't think it'll be easy. You need the ability to detect instances in which prices have diverged
significantly from intrinsic value. You have to have a strong-enough stomach to defy conventional
wisdom (one of the greatest oxymorons) and resist the myth that the market's always efficient, and
thus right. You need experience on which to base this resolute behavior. And you must have the
support of understanding, patient constituencies. Without enough time to ride out the extremes
while waiting for reason to prevail, you'll become that most typical of market victims: the six-foot
tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average. But if you're alert to
the pendulum-like swing of the markets, it's possible to recognize the opportunities that
occasionally are there for the plucking.


Memo: Hedge Funds: A Case for Caution.

Once upon a time there was an asset class. It was all over the headlines. Its
 performance was terrific. Some said "too good to be true," but that didn't stanch the
 flow of money. After all, what other asset class had ever produced returns like these?

 The performance brought vast amounts of capital to the sector. Demand exceeded
 supply, even as funds grew larger. The funds with the best records and discipline saw a
 deluge of money vastly exceeding their ability to accept it. Investors whose capital they
 turned away invested with managers who were less disciplined with regard to limits or
 with new funds. This gave rise to large numbers of start-ups and spin-offs from
 established firms. Lack of experience didn't prevent anyone from hanging out a shingle
 - or raising money. Some of the leading managers increased fees in order to appropriate
 more of their returns for themselves, and this enabled second-tier and new managers to
 charge fees that used to go only for proven performance.

 Everyone agreed there was "too much money chasing too few ideas," but they invested
 anyway, often based on their managers' supposed skill and the fact that "Everyone's
 doing it; I can't just stand by and watch while they make money." You could see the end
 of this tale coming down the track like a locomotive. The perpetual motion machine
 eventually ground to a halt. The combination of too much money chasing too few
 ideas dashed the hopes of those who in 1999-2000 looked for the "silver bullet" in
 venture capital. "Never again," they grumbled.

 Hope Springs Eternal
 U

 Of course, what they meant was, "Never again until next time." The fact is, investors
 never cease to dream of the silver bullet: the asset class or investment technique that can
 be counted on for high returns with low risk. Whenever one would-be silver bullet is
 discredited, investors give up on that irrational dream . . . and go looking for the next.

 I say over and over that there's no such thing as a "good" asset class. No asset class
 or investment technique has the birthright of a particular rate of return, and
 certainly not of a high return with low risk. No asset can be depended on for good
 performance irrespective of the price at which it's bought. And no area can be
 successfully invested in without regard for the balance between the supply of
 investment ideas in the area and the amount of money investors want to deploy in it.

 In fact, if you could ask just one question about a possible investment and be assured of

 one honest answer, I think it should be "what's the relationship between supply and
 demand?" If there are lots of assets for sale and few takers, those assets can often be
 bought cheap. If there are few assets offered and many would-be buyers, bargains are
 usually few and far between.

 While no guarantee of a silver bullet, the former can be the source of
 some good ammunition. With the latter you're more likely to shoot
 yourself in the foot.

 The New Solution
 U

 This memo's about hedge funds. They're the hot topic in the investment world today -
 the latest would-be silver bullet - largely, I think, because most have yet to disappoint
 performance-wise and because the big asset classes look unappealing.

 Common stocks were the big-picture silver bullet in the 1990s. Professor Jeremy's
 Siegel's "Stocks For the Long Run" assured us there had never been a long period in
 which stocks didn't beat bonds, cash and inflation. The authors of another book, "Dow
 36,000," were given space on The Wall Street Journal's op-ed page. Thus when stocks'
 popularity - and their representation in portfolios - hit a peak in early 2000, they were
 ready for a fall. A swoon that included the first three consecutive losing years since the
 Depression took the S&P 500 down 49% and the NASDAQ down 78%. As a result,
 stocks receive much less attention today than they did five years ago; less is expected
 from them in terms of return (even given today's lower prices); and they certainly aren't
 viewed as the place to put additional capital.

 Neither are money market assets (yielding 1%+), Treasury notes and bonds (3-5%)
 or high-grade corporate bonds (4-6%). Institutional investors find these promised
 yields unexciting (and far below their portfolio goals of 8%+/-), and the widespread
 expectation of rising rates makes it seem likely that holding period total returns will
 be even lower.

 With the two biggest markets holding so little appeal - and given the fact that it has
 to go someplace - money has been flowing to non-mainstream markets such as high
 yield bonds, buyouts, real estate, oil, timber . . . and hedge funds.

 The Hedge Fund Movement
 U

 Hedge funds did great in the 1990s, produced moderate gains during the collapse of
 stocks in 2000-02, and were in double digits in 2003. I think they also exhibit many of
 the traits associated with the venture capital boom described on page one of this memo,
 including widespread investor participation. I don't think hedge funds will bring
 losses at all comparable to what happened in venture capital at the peak, but I
 think their popularity is overdone and likely to lead to disappointment. Given the

 magnitude of the hedge fund movement, a memo on the subject has become inevitable.

 First, what are hedge funds? Briefly put, they're unregulated private partnerships that
 commingle the assets of institutions and wealthy individuals in pursuit of superior
 investment results. They're evergreen vehicles that offer periodic withdrawal
 opportunities to their investors, as opposed to closed-end entities such as private equity
 funds that promise no option to withdraw but begin to liquidate after a certain date and
 return money as they do.

 Except for one other factor, they can have very little else in common. Hedge funds
 operate in a great many ways. There are arbitrage funds in fixed income, mergers,
 convertibles and "stat arb"; long/short funds in stocks in general, tech stocks and
 emerging markets; macro funds which place bets on currencies and world markets; and
 funds which make mostly-long bets in specialized market niches such as distressed debt.
 There are small hedge funds and enormous hedge funds. Some hedge funds hedge - go
 short or otherwise take offsetting positions designed to reduce risk - and others
 don't. Thus some aim for steady returns with little volatility and market exposure,
 and some make massive, unhedged bets in pursuit of massive returns. Some hedge
 funds can fairly be described as pursuing "absolute return," and in the rest the
 returns are anything but absolute.

 What's that one remaining thing that hedge funds have in common? It's called "hedge
 fund pricing," meaning the manager gets an annual management fee of at least 1-2%
 plus a share - usually 20% - of all profits earned in the portfolio. In a world where the
 fees paid to long-only managers in traditional asset classes are a fraction of one
 percent, hedge fund pricing allows managers to make 3-4% or more and represents
 the raison d'etre for the hedge fund industry. One of the cleverest observations I've
 read is from Paul Isaac of Cadogan Management: "hedge funds are a compensation
 system often mistaken for an industry."

 From little or nothing a few years ago, many institutional investors now have 5-10% or
 more invested in hedge funds today. This has given rise to a massive expansion of the
 hedge fund community. There are estimated to be 7,000 hedge funds today, up from
 1,640 a decade ago. Their current capital is estimated at between $850 billion and $1
 trillion, up about ten times in ten years and well over 100% since the end of 2000. We
 read often of pension plans deciding to commit billions of dollars of additional capital to
 hedge funds. How will it play out?

 Scalability
 U

 In my opinion, scalability is the most important issue surrounding hedge funds:
 can a good little idea become a good big idea? Everyone wonders about the
 scalability of hedge funds, but I think they're yet another area where most people
 agree on the existence of the potential problems but invest anyway.

 It was in the mid-Seventies that I first began to hear of hedge funds such as Cumberland
 Partners and Steinhardt, Fine and Berkowitz. At that time the hedge fund industry
 consisted of a handful of funds trying to earn superior returns with total capital of a
 billion dollars or so. The funds limited their capital; researched smaller companies in
 greater depth than the mainstream investors; concentrated their portfolios in a handful of
 good ideas; and used shorting and hedging (but not leverage) to shape the pattern of their
 returns. For better or worse, their success over the ensuing 30 years led to fame and
 widespread emulation. As a result, we now have thousands of funds trying to earn
 superior returns with roughly a trillion dollars, and with much more on the way.
 (On September 13 The Bank of New York predicted that U.S. institutional investors
 alone would plow an additional $250 billion into hedge funds by 2008.) Can it still
 work?

 I hope you'll permit me one of my tortured analogies. Have you seen the nature film on
 TV showing big fish eating? One of the big fellows rips a piece from his prey and
 moves through the water enjoying his dinner. But due to his poor table manners, he
 spews small crumbs as he goes. It's for this reason that each big fish is trailed by a
 hundred little fish. They snack on the scraps he drops, enjoying his leavings. He does
 the hard work, and they get a free lunch.

 Well that's the way I've always thought of the investment world. Mainstream
 institutional investors emphasize the big asset classes and follow the big companies,
 creating a relatively efficient market and a context for relative valuation. But their
 attention wanes as the targets shrink, and their hands are tied by constraints on
 their behavior.

 Little guys such as hedge funds operate in the interstices. They take advantage of
 small inefficiencies and misvaluations that the big guys create, permit or ignore.
 They pursue things that are unseemly, esoteric or highly labor intensive. And they
 can employ tactics like leverage and shorting - and live with levels of portfolio
 concentration and illiquidity - that aren't tolerated in the mainstream investment
 world. In other words they, too, benefit from the big guys' leavings.

 The critical question is obvious: How many little fish can thrive in the shadow of
 each big fish? A hundred little fish trailing each big one all can do well. But those
 crumbs won't feed five hundred. Not only will the crumbs be insufficient in number,
 but the crowd will fight over them in a way that's unhealthy for everyone.

 Tortured enough? Maybe so, but I think the analogy holds. In my time in this
 business, the institutions have been the big fish of the investment world, and the
 hedge funds and alternative investment specialists have profited from their biases
 and limitations. But quintuple the number of "little guys" and maybe they'll no
 longer exhibit the same brilliance and adroitness.

 How many under-researched stocks are there, and how much can be invested in
 them?

 How much of a bargain-priced security can be bought without the price being driven
 up?
 How big an arbitrage position can be put on without the profit spread shrinking?
 How many shares of an overvalued stock are available for short-sellers to borrow?
 How much of something can the hedge funds collectively own without illiquidity
 closing their exit window?

 When there's an increase in the amount of capital that investors want to put into
 an area, there's no reason to expect a commensurate increase in the opportunities
 for good investment. So when the ratio of money to ideas increases, the
 implications for future performance can't be good.

 Now it should be made clear that the venture capital boom, for one example, was based
 in a very narrow investment segment and dependent on the creation of new companies
 for the deployment of capital. Hedge funds, on the other hand, collectively are able to
 invest in any form of asset or security, in all of the world's markets and employing a
 wide variety of investment techniques, and through shorting they have to ability to
 profit from "inefficiencies" in overvalued as well as undervalued assets.

 Thus the potential universe for hedge fund investments is enormous in the absolute. The
 real question is whether there are enough inefficiencies in this universe for all of the
 would-be hedge funds to invest in, and whether the presence of a large and growing
 number of funds has a deleterious effect on the adequacy of the supply.

 Of course, it goes without saying: just as no asset class has the birthright of a given
 return, giving something the overly broad label of "hedge fund" - and paying its
 manager "two-plus-twenty" - won't make it a stellar, or even a steady, performer.

 The Hedge Fund Manager's Superior Arsenal
 U

 A great deal is made of the powerful tools at the hedge fund manager's disposal. The
 ability to employ leverage - often in unlimited amounts - and the absence of constraints
 on investment tactics are lauded for their potential to add to results. But no one should
 forget their potential to do the opposite as well.

 Almost every weapon in the investment arsenal is a two-edged sword. The only
 exception is genuine, sustainable personal skill. Everything else will make you
 money when it works but lose you money when it doesn't. Leverage and free rein
 are no exceptions.

 Being able to leverage a portfolio means being able to invest a multiple of your equity
 capital. Why should an investor with $1,000 be content making $100 on a price rise of
 10%? Why not borrow another $3,000, invest all $4,000 in the same assets, and make
 $400 on a 10% rise? All you need is access to 3-to-1 leverage . . . oh yes, and the ability
 to identify assets that appreciate.

 In Vegas they say, "the more you bet, the more you win when you win." Although the
 logic of this statement is impeccable, it omits the obvious addendum ". . . and the more
 you lose when you lose." Leverage is not a source of alpha; it's a way of increasing
 your exposure to a given amount of alpha . . . or lack of alpha. The 3-to-1 leverager
 described above will lose 40% of his equity if prices go down 10% instead of up. The
 ability to use leverage - which is high and rising today given the low cost of money and
 the lure of the "carry trade" - certainly doesn't add asymmetrically to investment
 results.

 Neither does freedom from constraints. Institutional investors usually spend lots of time
 negotiating what tactics a mainstream investor will be permitted to apply and crafting
 contracts to keep him from straying afield. Then they turn over a bunch of money to a
 hedge fund manager and say, "do as you please." (I exaggerate for effect.) Does that
 make sense? Only in one case: where the manager possesses great skill and discipline.

 Investment constraints (1) enable clients to know what style of management they'll be
 getting and (2) hopefully limit managers to what they're good at. Their absence sets
 the stage for surprises and permits managers to wander into areas where they may have
 less skill. Thus the results from unrestrained hedge funds are often unforeseeable, and
 these vehicles should be handled with care.

 I think investors should pay above average fees only for asymmetric value added -
 that is, for a potential increment to returns that isn't accompanied by a
 corresponding potential decrement. And I think only genuine skill adds
 asymmetrically to investment results, not leverage and not the mere ability to use a
 wide range of investment tactics. The key in hedge fund investing is finding
 managers who have that skill. It isn't ubiquitous.

 A Few Words on Performance
 U

 Frankly, I wonder whether the decision to invest in hedge funds today is fully supported
 by their performance in 2000-04, their period of great popularity.

 I've watched institutions decide to join hedge funds. I think most of them invested for
 "absolute returns" - which I believe were supposed to be in the high single digits after
 fees - accompanied by low volatility and limited correlation with the mainstream
 markets. Now most institutions seem to be satisfied with their hedge fund performance
 and are signing up for more. But I wonder whether they should be. For the purposes
 of the analysis below I'll use the CSFB/Tremont Hedge Fund Index.

 With the S&P 500 down 9%, 12% and 22% in the 2000-02 bear market, investors in
 the CSFB/Tremont Index's average fund were delighted to make money, with the
 Index returning 4.9%, 4.4% and 3.0% in those years, respectively.

 And fund investors who might have expected much less were thrilled to see 15.4%
 from the Index in 2003.

 On the surface, all seems well: small gains when the stock market cratered, and a pleasant
 surprise in the big year of 2003. But is everything really all right?

 Were the results in 2000-02 all they should have been? Because everyone was
 understandably thrilled to make money while stocks collapsed, I don't hear anyone
 grumbling about modest returns. But should they be? Institutional Investor magazine
 made the point in February 2003:

 Hedge funds had a good year in 2002 - relatively speaking, of course. . . The
 trouble is, hedge funds are not merely supposed to do better than other
 investments. They're meant to outperform in absolute terms [I think this
 should be "perform in absolute terms"]. And most did not do that in 2002.

 Many students of the hedge fund area believe returns should be a function of interest
 rates, for example "LIBOR plus 500." In the early years of this decade, far less was
 achieved. Do the negative returns in the stock market fully explain the difference?

 With 2003 one of the best years in history in most markets, was 15.4% enough? In 1996,
 '97 and '99, the Hedge Fund Index captured a very substantial majority of the S&P's
 return. Why in 2003 did it garner just over half the gain? Obviously the ability of the
 average hedge fund to beat the booming S&P in 1999 was an outlier, with active flipping
 of IPOs and other ways to "pick off" feverish retail investors presenting unusual profit
 opportunities. 1998's negative return was equally aberrant, with the Index return pulled
 down by a 38% loss on the average emerging market hedge fund. But with these caveats
 in mind, why was the capture rate in 2003 so tepid?

 CSFB/Tremont Hedge Fund Return as
 Long/Short Index Percentage of S&P

 • Most recently, the CSFB/Tremont Hedge Fund Index is up just 2.8% in the first eight
 months of lackluster 2004. Again we must ask whether modest single digit
 returns are all that can be expected absent a tailwind from a strong stock
 market. What happened to the absolute return that would be earned with little
 reference to what went on in the markets? If the low returns are attributable to

 weak underlying markets, doesn't that suggest more correlation to market
 movements than was implied by the "absolute return" premise?

 In other words, has hedge fund performance since 2000 been good enough? "Single
 digits in down years and double digits in up years" sounds like a good deal. "Modest
 returns in bad years and modest participation in good years" is a little less
 appealing.

 I can think of four possible explanations for any shortfall from expectations: two
 benign and two unpleasant:

 If recent returns have been below expectations, this may be attributable to the low
 level of interest rates. Interest rates influence what funds will earn on their idle
 balances, proceeds from short sales, and arbitrage positions. So maybe hedge fund
 returns are due to pick up as short-term rates rise.

 And maybe hedge funds' good returns will be earned on average, rather than every
 year, and this has just been a below average period.

 But maybe more hungry "fish" with more money crowding into a given market are
 having the predictable depressant effect on returns. Maybe there's a fixed amount
 of excess return available to be earned in a given year, and when it's spread over
 a lot more capital, the results become less positive. Or, even worse, maybe the
 combined efforts of all these people make the markets more efficient, reducing
 the total excess return available for them to share.

 Perhaps the increase in the number of hedge fund managers has brought a decrease in
 their average alpha. Why should we believe the last 20,000 managers to join the
 sector are as smart as the first 1,000? One of the rationales for hedge fund
 investing, as The Wall Street Journal put it on July 7, is that, "Hedge funds still attract
 the smartest managers, lured by the rich fees." I may be missing something, but why
 should the appeal of rich fees be limited to smart managers? Can't they attract the
 not-so-smart as well?

 It's my personal guess that there's truth in each of these four possible explanations.
 But if that's the case, the latter two will have a deleterious effect despite the validity of
 the former.

 Drawbacks and Pitfalls
 U

 There are enough people out there trumpeting the benefits of hedge funds; you don't need
 me to repeat them. I'll just play my normal worrier's role by listing some caveats:

 The performance data on which investors are making the decision to commit to hedge
 funds is highly imperfect. It is unsystematic, unscientific and covers a short and not-

 necessarily-representative period. In addition, it's weakened by post-selection bias
 (low-return funds are unlikely to volunteer their performance) and survivorship bias
 (the estimated 25% of funds that go out of business each year are even less apt to do
 so). Importantly, holdings of illiquid or infrequently marked securities can cause
 betas and risk to be understated and thus Sharpe ratios to be overstated (Pensions &
 Investments, August 19, 2002).

 It is obvious that some of the tactics employed by hedge funds entail considerable
 volatility and illiquidity. And yet, hedge funds give their investors the periodic right
 to withdraw. Thus, it's possible for a hedge fund to offer more liquidity than
 does its underlying investment portfolio. This can be a formula for disaster. Given
 that a lot of the capital now in hedge funds is "hot money" prone to exit given a
 period of underperformance, it's not hard to envision (and in fact the community has
 seen) rapid-fire withdrawals that lead to downward spirals and penalize the last
 investors out the door, who can find themselves owning disproportionate amounts of
 hard-to-value and hard-to-sell securities.

 In most hedge funds, it's hoped that the managers' actions will neutralize the effect of
 market fluctuations. In other words, you're betting on the managers' skill, not the
 market direction. As in any inefficient, alpha-based market niche, the
 performance gap between superior and inferior managers can be substantial.
 Thus you'd better find superior managers, and that's not easy. Also, since many
 of the best and most disciplined managers have closed their funds, you'd better
 hope the available funds will be able to replicate the returns that attracted you to
 the area in the first place.

 With thousands of hedge funds all using computers to screen investment
 opportunities, there's a tendency for lots of them to move in the same direction at the
 same time. This can shrink purchase opportunities, eat into prospective returns
 and reduce liquidity. The Wall Street Journal described the situation on June 30:
 "Increasingly, the growing group of hedge funds pile into the same trades. With so
 much money chasing similar strategies, good investment returns become more
 elusive. Moreover, when an attractive idea turns sour, the rush to the exits gets
 crowded, exacerbating an already tense investment environment."

 We read often about the migration to the hedge fund world of people from elsewhere
 in the investment industry. This is the same phenomenon as we saw in the dot-coms
 in 1998-99. When people flood an area because of the easy money to be made there,
 the results are usually predictable.

 I'm particularly skeptical of the movement of people from traditional portfolio
 management to hedge funds. Stock picking ability isn't sufficient for success in
 managing a hedged and/or leveraged portfolio -- risk management is at least as
 important. The two are not the same, and the traditional buyside professional
 doesn't have much experience in the latter.

 As has happened in other alternative investment fields, changes in an industry can
 expose weaknesses in the compensation arrangements. Originally, management fees
 were intended primarily to cover operating expenses while incentive fees motivated
 managers to strive for profits. But as funds grow larger, some are at the point where
 managers can get rich on management fees alone. Recently we've seen investment
 celebrities start hedge funds with perhaps $3 billion of capital and management fees
 of 2% or so. $60 million a year is a pretty good start if you can get it. Fees like these
 can motivate managers to put a higher priority on perpetuating the management fee
 machine than on pursuing portfolio gains. Although hedge funds and private equity
 funds carry similar fee arrangements, the latter have hurdle rates that motivate their
 managers to try for double-digit returns. Hedge fund managers probably figure they
 can hold onto their capital and earn 2-4% a year for themselves with returns in
 moderate single digits. I'm not sure that warrants the fees.

 At the other end of the spectrum from managers able to attract billions in capital and
 massive management fees, the impatient newcomer with access to incentive fee
 money faces potential temptation that also might trouble investors: It makes perfect
 sense for him to start a fund and swing for the fences with highly risky securities,
 leverage and concentration. Hit a homer and he's rich; strike out and he goes back to
 his old job.

 We know incentive fees can serve to align interests between investors and their
 managers when profits are in the offing. But what happens when there are losses?
 When a fund has run up some serious losses and needs to recover to the "high-water
 mark" before it can generate incentive fees again, its personnel don't stand to share in
 gains for a while. So what is there to make them stay around to engineer the
 recovery, rather than move to a new fund where they can profit from dollar one? On
 July 15 The Wall Street Journal described one such situation: "Rather than try to dig
 out of the deep hole, while at the same time not getting paid as much as they could
 earn elsewhere, Mr. James and his team began to contemplate starting out on their
 own."

 Finally, I'll list a few other topics that may make hedge funds the subject of negative
 headlines in the future:

 o the risk implicit in the combination of leveraged hedge funds, leveraged funds of
 funds, and leveraged fund investors;
 o the absence of registration and regulation;
 o the lack of transparency;
 o the potential conflicts that arise when hedge funds are run within an organization
 that also manages non-hedge fund money in the same markets;
 o hedge funds' involvement in buyouts (do they have the needed skills? will it
 reduce their liquidity and ability to value the portfolio for
 subscriptions/redemptions?);
 o buyout firms' growing involvement in hedge funds (still more competitors?);
 o possible improprieties in hedge fund marketing;

 o concern over the impact of hedge fund short selling;
 o and, of course, the outright fraud that occasionally arises and always is a threat.

 The Outlook for Hedge Fund Investing
 U

 As I said earlier, despite the troubling factors enumerated above, I do not envision
 a boom-bust scenario for hedge fund investors. After all, hedge funds spread their
 investment over almost all asset classes, and most funds are fairly disciplined in sticking
 to low-priced investments. So there isn't a single asset or group of assets where we
 have to worry about hedge funds creating bubble-like appreciation and the usual
 subsequent collapse.

 No, the excesses aren't in the prices of the assets in which hedge funds invest. The
 excesses are in the trends affecting the industry: too much money coming too fast;
 too many funds managed by people of uneven skill; and too-high fees relative to the
 limited excess return the average fund is likely to generate.

 I do not expect a debacle, just a disappointing experience. The sad fact is that, on
 average, hedge funds may go down as just another former silver bullet.

 The high single digit return for which I think people invested wasn't a figment of
 anyone's imagination. It was probably reasonable looking back at the period preceding
 the current hedge fund boom. After all, in a period when stocks consistently returned
 double digits, Treasury notes paid 6% and high yield bonds yielded 12%, it's eminently
 logical that a few highly skilled hedge fund managers could earn 8-9% or more after fees
 on a low-risk basis.

 But that scenario doesn't describe today or tomorrow. There's no reason to expect a
 near-term repeat of stock and bond returns like those, and certainly the hedge fund arena
 is far more crowded than it's ever been. So I think the average hedge fund might make
 5-6% net of fees in the years just ahead. (That could change after lower prices and
 higher interest rates re-elevate the prospective returns on stocks and bonds - and after
 some disappointed capital departs the hedge fund field - but I'm just dealing here with
 the current environment. And please note that I'm not making a prediction, just a wild
 guess within a wide range.)

 I'll go with 5-6% for the average hedge fund - considerably more from the best
 managers, less from the worst and, yes, total loss from the occasional risk-
 management disaster. Is that terrible? No. But the question is whether it will be
 entirely satisfactory.

 First, I think it may be less than the hedge fund managers and consultants have
 predicted.
 Second, it will put most institutions further behind their overall investment goals.
 And third, I think it'll look pretty anemic if Treasury note yields return to that range,

 as they may, or if stocks can get anywhere close to their long-term 10% historic
 average.

 A net return of 5-6% earned with low risk in a low-return world may sound pretty good
 to lots of people, especially in light of the pain that long-only common stock investors
 experienced in 2000-02. I believe a great deal of current hedge fund investment is
 motivated by a desire for mid-single digit returns with safety, and also that a lot of
 funds have been designed to deliver them. Managers are constraining risk; locking in
 profits at modest levels; dedicating their efforts to avoiding down months and quarters;
 and refraining from reaching for the stars. Some of this is good.

 But I think paying fees of 2-4% to earn net returns of 5-6% may start to get old,
 especially if and when returns on mainstream stock and bonds get back to more
 attractive levels. That's why I worry about the potential for disappointment. Right
 now, in a world of 1% money market rates and lackluster returns everywhere, that
 may be sufficient. But sentiment is inherently unstable, and I'm not sure investors
 will remain content if they begin to miss out on more elsewhere . . . while paying the
 highest fees in the investment world to do so.

 To start bringing this memo to a close, I'll cite John Moon and Tim Jensen's apt
 enumeration of the possible outcomes in our Emerging Markets Fund's second quarter
 letter:

 We have no idea if the hedge fund boom will peter out after several years of
 mediocre performance, end in another [Long-Term Capital Management]
 crescendo, or continue until all money is either indexed or run by hedge funds.

 In testimony to Congress, Alan Greenspan focused on what I think is the most likely
 result:

 Hedge funds seek out the abnormal rates of profit often found where markets are
 otherwise inefficient. But these above-normal profits have attracted a large
 number of new entrants seeking to exploit a possibly narrowing field of
 inefficiencies. Not surprisingly the rate of return in this activity is reportedly
 declining. I would not be surprised if, with time, many of the new entrants exited,
 some presumably following large losses. (The Wall Street Journal, July

 * * *

 In my treasury of investment sayings, there's a special section reserved for what I call
 "the classics." None is more dependable than this: What the wise man does in the
 beginning, the fool does in the end. Intrepid pioneering investors get the underpriced
 gems. Once something has been discovered and the price bid up, the latecomers who
 come aboard in ever-increasing numbers - lured by past performance - can look forward
 to less return and more risk.

 I can't imagine an investment area whose attractiveness can survive the onslaught of an
 investor herd thinking it constitutes the silver bullet. It wouldn't make sense for one to
 exist, given that it's the job of a smoothly functioning market to eliminate opportunities
 for unusual profits. "Too much money chasing too few ideas" has been the death
 knell for investment fad after fad. This will never cease to be so.

 Hedge funds are just like any other investment tool. They are neither a good idea
 nor a bad idea. They have both plusses and minuses. They're subject to market
 forces capable of altering their attractiveness. And like any other investment that's
 in vogue, they should be handled with great care, with eyes wide open.

 The right hedge funds may be just what the doctor ordered for investors who place a high
 priority on stable returns and are willing to trade away a lot of their upside potential for
 that stability. The key will be finding managers who possess skill, discipline and
 integrity. Doing so won't prove easy; there's no reason why finding superior managers
 should be any easier than finding superior investments. But as in other quarters of the
 investing universe, the rewards for success can be substantial.

 There's no question that some of the smartest investment managers are gravitating to the
 hedge fund arena with its out-sized financial rewards. But they're not the only ones
 being drawn to the money, and some of the rest will turn out to be incompetent or
 downright unscrupulous. The tools are there for hedge fund managers to use, but all the
 tools in the world won't produce superior risk-adjusted returns without superior skill.
 Just as all managers can't be in the top quartile, all hedge fund managers are
 unlikely to be smart enough to identify the markets' mistakes; undoubtedly some of
 them will be the ones making those mistakes.

 Finally, my personal bottom line: the most important element in the decision to
 invest in a hedge fund shouldn't be the sheer profit potential, but your comfort in
 entrusting its managers with the combination of potent investment tactics, high-
 octane fees and the absence of a hurdle rate.


Memo: Risk and Return Today.

A single word is enough to describe the overall investment world today: lackluster. Stock and
bond returns thus far in 2004 are quite modest virtually across the board. Candid managers
almost everywhere admit there's little to buy. In many areas, especially in non-traditional
investments, everyone agrees there's "too much money chasing too few ideas." How can
everything be priced to provide low returns? Where does this excess money come from? I'll
provide my explanation below. Pardon me if I start with some rudimentary building blocks.

 Risk/Return Foundations

The most fundamental assumption underlying investment theory and practice today regards the
universality of risk aversion. It is assumed that people dislike risk and prefer safety. The proof
is simple: if a safe investment and risky investment - e.g., a 30-day U.S. Treasury bill and a
start-up company's 30-year bond - both offer a 5% yield, virtually no one will choose the latter.

Thus, if investors are going to bear risk, they must be induced to do so, with the incentive
coming in the form of a higher expected return. In short then, the market must set prices such
that investors will expect riskier investments to deliver higher returns. (I have said many times
that those higher returns must not be viewed as dependable; if risky investments could be
counted on to produce higher returns, they wouldn't be risky. Thus their expected returns must
appear to be higher in order to attract capital, but the higher expected return will always be
accompanied by a range of possible outcomes that is wider and may include losses.)

Because of the assumed correlation between perceived risk and perceived return potential, the
following graphic has come into widespread use to depict the market's basic workings:

 Return

 Risk

As the graphic suggests, there is a low return that can be earned on the riskless asset and, from
there, prospective return will rise with prospective risk. Thus we have a "capital market line"
that, as the academics say, "is upward sloping to the right." (The "riskless asset" is generally
felt to be the shortest U.S. Treasury bill, with regard to which investors don't worry about credit
risk or the risk that inflation will erode the purchasing power of principal before it's repaid upon
maturity.)

 The Market at Work

I'll use a "typical" market of a few years back to illustrate how this works in real life: The
interest rate on the 30-day T-bill might have been 4%. So an investor says, "If I'm going to go
out five years, I want 5%. And to buy the 10-year note I have to get 6%." He demands a higher
rate to extend maturity because he's concerned about the risk to purchasing power, a risk that is
assumed to increase with time to maturity. That's why the yield curve, which in reality is a
portion of the capital market line, normally slopes upward with the increase in asset life.

Now let's factor in credit risk. "If the 10-year Treasury pays 6%, I'm not going to buy a 10-
year single-A corporate unless I'm promised 7%." This introduces the concept of credit
spreads. Our hypothetical investor wants 100 basis points to go from a "guvvie" to a
"corporate." If the consensus of investors feels the same, that's what the spread will be.

What if we depart from investment grade bonds? "I'm not going to touch a high yield bond
unless I get 600 over a Treasury note of comparable maturity." So high yield bonds are
required to yield 12%, for a spread of 6 percent over the Treasury note, if they're going to
attract buyers.

Now let's leave fixed income altogether. Things get tougher, because you can't look anywhere
to find the prospective return on investments like stocks (that's because, simply put, their
returns are conjectural, not "fixed"). But investors have a sense for these things. "Historically
S&P stocks have returned 10%, and I'll only buy them if I think they're going to keep doing
so." So in theory, the common stock investor determines earnings per share, earnings growth
rate and dividend payout ratio and inputs them into a valuation model to arrive at the price from
which S&P stocks will return 10% (although I'm not sure the process is nearly that methodical
in actuality). "And riskier stocks should return more; I won't buy on the NASDAQ unless I
think I'm going to get 13%."

From there it's onward and upward. "If I can get 10% from stocks, I need 15% to accept the
illiquidity and uncertainty associated with real estate. And 25% if I'm going to invest in
buyouts . . . and 30% to induce me to go for venture capital, with its low success ratio."

That's the way it's supposed to work, and in fact I think it generally does (although the
requirements aren't the same at all times). The result is a capital market line of the sort that has
become familiar to many of us, as shown on the next page.

 Ve
 nt
 B ur
 e
 uy C
 ap
 ou ita
 R ts
 l(
 ea %
 S lE
 st
 ) )
 m
 al
 lS
 H at
 e
 S h
 Yi
 to
 ck
 )

 Return
 &P el
 H St d
 Bo
 s
 h
 o ck nd )
 ea
 G
 ra
 de
 s
 s
 Mo Ye
 ar
 rT
 re
 Bo
 nd
 ) )
 ne Tr as s
 M su y
 ke %
 )
 )

 Risk

 The Market at Work - 2004 Version

A big problem for investment returns today stems from the starting point for this process:
The riskless rate isn't 4%; it's closer to 1%. Interest rates reached multi-generational lows in
2004. The Fed kept short rates low for much of the year, although they've been inching up in
recent months. This was done (a) to stimulate an economy that has been quite sluggish since
the last recession and (b) to protect the economy against negative effects from exogenous
shocks, most prominently the corporate scandals of 2001-02 and the terrorist attacks of 9/11
(and the possibility of more); in fact, the low rates have been described as "emergency rates."

Our typical investor still wants more return if he's going to accept time risk, but with the
starting point at 1+%, now 4% is the right rate for the 10-year (not 6%). He won't go into
stocks unless he gets 6-7%. And junk bonds may not be worth it at yields below 7%. Real
estate has to yield 8% or so. For buyouts to be attractive they have to appear to promise 15%,
and so on. Thus we now have a capital market line like the one shown below that is (a) at a
much lower level and (b) much flatter.

 V
 B e

 Return
 Ca n t u
 Re uy pi r e
 ta
 Sm al
 ou
 ts l(

 H al
 Es
 ta
 )
 S ig
 lS
 to
 t e
 )
 H &P
 h
 Yi c ks %
 )
 el
 d
 -Y Gr ks ) )
 M -Y
 rT
 rT
 re
 as
 ad
 es
 %
 on re .( % )
 M .( )
 %
 )

The lower level of the line is explained by the low interest rates, the starting point for which is
the low riskless rate. After all, the investment thought process is a chain in which each
investment sets the requirement for the next. Each investment has to compete with others for
capital, but this year, due to the low interest rates, the bar for each successively riskier
investment has been set lower than at any time in my career.

 Why a Flatter Line?

Not only is the capital market line at a low level today in terms of return, but in addition a
number of factors have conspired to flatten it. First, investors have fallen over themselves in
their effort to get away from low-risk, low-return investments. When you're especially
eager not to make safe investment A, it takes less compensation than usual (in terms of
prospective return) to get you to accept risky investment B. Because people today are so
motivated to get away from 1% money market investments and 3-4% Treasury notes, they'll
accept less risk compensation than usual.

Second, risky investments have been very rewarding for more than twenty years and did
particularly well in 2003. With only occasional, easily forgotten exceptions, we've seen high
returns from common stocks, low-quality stocks, emerging market stocks, high yield bonds,
distressed debt, private equity . . . the list goes on. Thus investors are attracted more (or
repelled less) by risky investments than perhaps might otherwise be the case and require
less risk compensation to move to them.

Third, investors perceive risk as being quite limited today. Because rising inflation isn't
seen as a significant risk, bond investors don't require much of a premium to extend maturity.
And because the combination of a recovering economy and an accommodating capital market
has brought default rates to record lows, investors are unconcerned about credit risk and thus are
willing to accept below-average credit spreads. Prospective return exists to compensate for
perceived risk, and when there isn't much perceived risk, there isn't likely to be much
prospective return.

In summary, to use the words of the "quants," risk aversion is down. In May 2003 we at
Oaktree began to worry about investors' indiscriminate behavior (of course, we're usually early
in worrying about overheated markets). We were struck by the rapidity with which the terrified
investors of less than a year earlier had become confident and aggressive. "Stressed" bonds that
we had bought at yields of 30% to 70% in the summer of 2002 now could be sold at yields of
6% to 9%. Somehow, in that alchemy unique to investor psychology, "I wouldn't touch it at
any price" had morphed into "looks like a solid investment to me." As a result, money was
flooding out of low-yielding safe investments and into risky investments that appeared to offer
higher returns (although we didn't think the returns were high enough).

In response, I wrote a piece called "The Cat, the Tree, the Carrot and the Stick" as part of my
memo "What's Going On?" published on May 6, 2003. I said I thought the combination of low
prospective returns on safe investments and recent high returns on risky investments was
pushing many investors to dangerously high branches of the investment tree. Those branches
are subject to cracking under all that weight. Therefore, until conditions changed, I suggested
something closer to the ground.

Money, Money Everywhere
U

But how can it be that there's too much capital trying to access so many markets at once? We
can understand investor capital flowing from one market to another, but isn't the total amount of
investment capital finite? Where does "more money" come from?

I think the amount of investment capital usually is rather fixed, (although many corporations are
making pension fund contributions to correct under-funding), and in fact I don't think there's
really "more money everywhere." It's just that no one wants to hold more cash at 1%, high
grades at 3-5% or stocks at 6-7% (after stocks treated investors so poorly in 2000-02, that's
what most people think they're now poised to return).

Thus I think the present situation is as follows:

 There's a given amount of money looking for a home.

 Relatively little of it is going into mainstream stocks and bonds, the two biggest markets.

 The redirection of that capital to the smaller non-traditional markets has given rise to a
 deluge capable of overwhelming those markets: driving up prices, lowering prospective
 returns and rendering attractive investments scarce as hens' teeth.

So it's not that there's that much more money around. It's that would-be buyers are
optimistic, unafraid, undemanding in terms of return, and moving en masse to small asset
classes. Holders of assets, who play a part in setting market prices by deciding where they'll
sell, also are optimistic. The result is an unappetizing, risk-tolerant, high-priced investment
landscape. It's for times like this that my favorite Warren Buffett quotation is most appropriate:
"The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with
which we must conduct our own affairs."

Implications for Investing
U

One way to improve investment results - which we try hard to apply at Oaktree - is to think
about what "today's mistake" might be and try to avoid it. There are times in investing when
the likely mistake consists of:

 not buying,
 not buying enough,
 not making one more bid in an auction,
 holding too much cash,
 not using enough leverage, or
 not taking enough risk.

I don't think that describes today. I've always heard that no one awaiting heart surgery ever
complained, "I wish I'd gone to the office more." Well, likewise I don't think anyone in the
next few years is going to look back and say, "I wish I'd invested more in 2004."

Rather, I think this year's mistake is going to turn out to be:

 buying too much,
 buying too aggressively,
 making one bid too many,
 using too much leverage, and
 taking too much risk in the pursuit of superior returns.

There are times when the investing errors are of omission: the things you should have done but
didn't. Today I think the errors are probably of commission: the things you shouldn't have done
but did. There are times for aggressiveness. I think this is a time for caution.

Not every investor has the option of holding a lot of cash. A pension fund has to pursue its
actuarial return, and too many years spent earning money market rates can ensure it won't be
achieved. The same can be true for a foundation that has to spend 5% of its assets each year,
and for an individual living on his or her investment income. But when I look today at the
smart people I know who have the ability to hold cash, I see large balances. As Warren Buffett
wrote in his 2003 Annual Report, "Our capital is underutilized now . . . . It's a painful condition
to be in - but not as painful as doing something stupid."

There are times when big funds are a good thing - when the market power that comes with
more money is a help. I think this is generally a time for moderation in fund raising - a time
when the selectivity and agility that come with smallness will prove to be key. Still, some
managers are raising ever-larger funds and extending into new strategies on the back of recent
strong results. That doesn't mean it's smart to join the herd of participants.

In my memo "What's Your Game Plan" on investing and sports (September 5, 2003), I
mentioned the importance of "playing within yourself," or "not trying to do things you're not
capable of, or things that can't be accomplished within the environment as it exists."

 We simply cannot create investment opportunities when they're not there. In its
 first year, our newest distressed debt fund produced a 64% net IRR that's eye-
 popping . . . and impossible to replicate any time soon. So what should we do
 now? Rather than take profits and distribute the proceeds, should we prolong our
 holding periods or try to repeat our gains in new positions? And would it be
 smart to raise a big new fund? None of these, if the prospective returns on our
 holdings are inadequate and new investment opportunities are limited. The
 dumbest thing we could do is to insist on perpetuating our high returns - and
 give back our profits in the process. If it's not there, hoping won't make it so.
 All we ever can do is take what they give us.

No one wants to throw in the towel with regard to investment returns. No one likes to
admit that their intelligence and hard work won't be enough to get them to their target.
But at times when the markets are offering paltry absolute returns and inadequate
compensation for bearing risk, it's the only thing to do.

What's the alternative? Deny the facts? Take on more risk in pursuit of high returns? Doing so
won't help when prices are high and too much capital is jostling for admittance. The fact is
there are times when you have to stress caution, refuse to stretch for return, moderate
your expectations, and keep your head down. I think this is one of those.

By the way, I'm not saying all investments are priced too high and bound to collapse. I'm
saying most aren't priced to give high returns or adequate risk compensation. Whether a
strong price correction is coming in a given market depends on the extent and speed with which
investors increase their return demands. Remember, there's only one way for prospective
returns to increase quickly: through a price correction. On the other hand, a slow and gradual
reassertion of prospective return can be accomplished through several years of price stagnation.
Neither prospect, however, argues for aggressive investing today.

As for individual asset classes,

 The greatest excesses seem to be centered in some of the alternative investments to
 which people have fled in search of return. Private equity, distressed debt, hedge funds
 and others of that ilk are unlikely to prove the "silver bullets" that people are hoping for.

 There's no question that bonds of all stripes are fated to produce low returns - in fact,
 the lowest long-term bond returns I've ever seen. When you're talking about a 10% 10-
 year bond, you can argue about whether the return over the next few years will be 15%,
 10%, 5% or zero. But when you're talking about a 5% bond, the range by definition has
 to be significantly lower.

 Finally, stocks are well down from their highs; their valuations have been rendered less
 excessive by today's generally higher corporate earnings; and they aren't being borne
 aloft by capital inflows. On the other hand, absolute p/e ratios are still high, supported
 by the low level of interest rates, and there's the risk of downward valuation when
 people realize that the long-term return on stocks is likely to be driven by profits growth
 in mid-single digits.

Taking all of the above into consideration, I feel this is a time when the route to investment
success may be via the "least bad" course of action. For over a year I've been telling the
boards on which I serve that I view the solution as "special niches, special people."
Because the vast majority of asset classes are high priced and crowded, the key is to find
those that are less so. Similarly, it's important to choose managers with enough talent and
discipline to make the most of the current situation.

None of my observations is sure to be right, as always, but I want to share my thinking about
what's going on in the investment markets today.