Memo: Oaktree at Ten.

represented a first step toward the founders' dream, which all of our colleagues embraced and
implemented. In what truly feels like the blink of an eye, we've reached our tenth anniversary, and
I'm writing to share our view of that first decade.

Priorities - Oaktree didn't start with a budget, a profit projection or a business plan. Rather, it was
built on an investment philosophy and a set of business principles. When we started Oaktree, many
people asked us about our motivation. We told them it was simple: we wanted a firm that would run
our way. The things that constituted "our way" had been rattling around in our heads for many
years and were the topic of many shared conversations. All that remained was to write them down
and put them to work.

As you've heard ad nauseum, we chose to base Oaktree's approach to money management on a
simple motto: "if we avoid the losers, the winners will take care of themselves." Thus we've
endeavored to build portfolios that would give us acceptable performance if our expectations
weren't fully realized, combined with the possibility of surprises on the upside if they were. We've
strived to match market returns in good times and do markedly better in bad times - something that
may sound simple but isn't. We chose to work in inefficient markets only, with portfolios that stick
closely to their charter. Each of our portfolios is staffed by people dedicated to that market sector -
who work hard to know more than others about companies, industries and securities, and who
realize they can't get an edge with regard to macro forecasts and market timing. Thus our
investment philosophy has provided a clear set of guideposts for Oaktree's people.

Equally important have been our business practices. Here the concepts are even simpler, but no less
helpful: Portfolio decisions based on substantial investment in proprietary research. Conflicts of
interest resolved in favor of the client every time. Compensation arrangements that align our
interests with those of our clients. Thoroughly truthful communications and a pronounced refusal to
downplay bad news. New strategies added only if they can be executed with risk under control. In
1995, we wrote that "The firm's profitability must stem from doing all the above. . . . Our earnings
should grow if we achieve excellence in investing . . . but only then." We've all seen instances in
recent years when gathering assets was accorded a higher priority than performing for clients - and
headlines that were sad testimony to the result. I'm proud to say Oaktree's single-minded pursuit of
its clients' interests has never been questioned.

We published our guiding principles in the spring of 1995 and literally haven't changed a word
since (other than to add the criteria for new Oaktree strategies). And as we head into the second
decade, we consider them just as applicable to the future as they have been in the past.

Clients - We felt going in that if we stuck to the rules we'd followed previously and delivered the
same level of performance, the rest would come: we'd have a successful business on our hands.
Happily, that's what happened.

We are thrilled by the caliber of the investors we're able to call our clients - the term "gilt-edge"
seems inescapable: Twenty-four of the fifty largest corporate pension plans as of year-end 2004.
The pension funds of twenty-two of the fifty states (plus many counties, cities and police and fire
departments). Eighty-one college and university endowments. Many of the world's leading
charitable foundations and most sophisticated insurers. A Vanguard mutual fund. And a growing
complement of high net worth investors. Here's a fact for you: of the 25 pension plans with the
biggest commitments to distressed debt according to Pensions & Investments, (a good indicator of
investment sophistication, we think), 23 participate in at least one Oaktree strategy. Oaktree's client
roster represents the ultimate validation of our efforts as investment professionals. And it expands
every year. In fact, we feel most ten-year-old money management firms would be happy to have a
clientele consisting of just the accounts that join Oaktree in a typical year.

Even more important than the number of our clients is the quality of the relationships. Many have
become true partners who extend a warm welcome, give our proposals the benefit of the doubt,
believe us when we say something is true, provide their valuable counsel, and continue to broaden
the list of things they do with us. As a result, on average our twenty largest client relationships
encompass more than four of Oaktree's twelve strategies. The reception we receive from our clients
is truly one of our greatest sources of satisfaction.

Performance - Of course, we realize that these relationships stem only in part from the fact that our
clients like us as people or share our philosophy. We'd be no place without performance. Thus
we're proud to be able to say we've achieved what we set out to do. We'd love to deliver great
results every year, but that's simply not possible. Instead, in short, it's our goal to eliminate
disasters, so that every year is either good or great. If a money management firm can do nothing
other than produce returns that are at least decent every year, it's sure to have an excellent long-term
record. I truly can say my colleagues have done so, and that we've made money for our collective
clientele every year since Oaktree opened its doors.

Including our time spent at TCW, we have well over 100 full calendar years of AIMR-compliant
performance records: 19 years in high yield bonds, 18 years in convertibles, 16 years in distressed
debt, and so forth. And of those 100-plus years, you'd have to stretch to find one or two when
performance fell short of "at least decent," by which we mean a return that's good or great in either
absolute or relative terms.

Likewise, I'm very proud to say that of the 24 closed-end funds we organized between 1988 and
2003, they've all been profitable, with net IRRs to date ranging from 4% to 49%. Again, good or
great in every case, with no disasters.

Do we set the bar too low by pursuing performance that's just "at least decent every year"? I don't
think so. First, I'm sure results of that sort in every year and every fund will give us one of the best
long-term records. Second, I know of very few others operating in our fields who've done it as long
without stumbling. And third, as far as I know no client has ever left Oaktree because they found
our performance unsatisfactory. It may sound like a modest goal, but continuing to achieve it is one
of my greatest aspirations.

Growth - Oaktree began ten years ago with seven "legacy" strategies: high yield bonds; U.S.,
international and high income convertibles; distressed debt; principal investments for corporate
control; and real estate. We managed $7 billion in these seven just before leaving TCW to start
Oaktree, and we brought over at least $6 billion. As of year-end 2004 they had grown to $22.5
billion.

[This first mention of asset growth makes this is a good time for a key aside: we feel many of our
best decisions have related to limiting the assets under our management. Marketing efforts in all
four of the original "marketable securities" strategies have been curtailed from time to time. (In
high yield bonds, for example, we've turned away or declined to compete for $14 billion of new
assets since November 1998.) All three of the original "private partnership" strategies have
restricted the size of their funds to match the available market opportunities, with good results.]

After spending the years 1995-97 developing our infrastructure and attracting clients to the seven
original strategies, we turned in 1998 to expanding our "product line." In the seven years since,
we've identified five new strategies that met our criteria (inefficient markets that offer the potential
for superior risk-adjusted returns; a way to exploit them with risk under control; and people at hand
who're capable of doing so). Thus we began to manage assets in emerging market equities (1998),
European high yield bonds (1999), buyouts in power infrastructure (1999), mezzanine investments
(2001) and a credit-oriented hedge fund (2004), with results we're proud of in every case. It has
been our goal to offer helpful new strategies to our clients but not become a "fund-of-the-month
club." And we have required that every new strategy adhere to Oaktree's investment philosophy.

The expansion of our offerings overlapped with our decision to look beyond the U.S. Before 1998,
we had significantly invested abroad only in convertibles. But early that year we concluded that our
strengths could be applied internationally. The steps in our internationalization have included the
1998 creation of a London office for the management of European high yield bond portfolios, which
began in 1999; formation of our first emerging markets fund at the end of 1998 (which brought the
establishment of our research office in Singapore); the creation of a Tokyo real estate office in 1999,
which since has broadened its scope to include investments in Japanese corporations; and the
initiation of rest-of-world marketing out of London in 2001. In 2004 we opened a Frankfurt office
to pursue opportunities in real estate, private equity and distressed debt, and several of our strategies
will see further internationalization in 2005 and beyond. The key is for us to remember that there
are differences between these markets and the U.S., and thus to proceed cautiously, with the bar held
high in terms of required returns.

Finally, we have responded positively to the growing opportunity available to us in serving high net
worth investors. While our approach has never included advertising or promotion, we have
benefited from word-of-mouth recommendation and from the prominent individuals who first
learned of us through institutional relationships. Thus, from $300 million at the end of 1995, our
business with HNW investors has grown to $1.1 billion today.

For us, Oaktree isn't a "growth story." We've never had goals in terms of growth rate or assets
under management. Rather, we want to serve our clients where we have an advantage. We've
always been certain that prudent expansion would lead to asset growth, and the results have been
most positive: Of our year-end 2004 assets, $5.2 billion (or 19%) was in the five new strategies
mentioned above. Our investments outside the U.S. total $7.1 billion, and assets managed for
clients based abroad stand at $2.5 billion. Thus, adding in the $1.1 billion in high net worth

accounts (and even after eliminating the significant double counting among these numbers), it's
clear that new directions have contributed a lot to Oaktree's growth in these ten years.

People - The irreplaceable element in producing these results has been people, and I couldn't be
more proud of my colleagues. Oaktree started with 42 of us who had worked together at TCW, and
we were greeted on that first day by the "advance party" consisting of Chief Financial and
Administrative Officer David Kirchheimer (employee #1) and his support crew. The biggest
surprise upon starting up was the amount of non-investment work there was to do, but David got us
rolling and kept us there.

From that beginning we have grown to roughly 300 people. They're tops in terms of intellect, street
smarts and character, and a pleasure to be around. The "second generation" both pushes and
supports the first, and the "third generation" is right behind them every moment. I'm glad to say
that, together, they have created the harmonious environment we wanted, in which team effort leads
to excellent results. The investment management industry is full of brilliant people who can make
you a lot of money but are tough to work with. I'm happy to say there aren't any at Oaktree.

And speaking of "happy," I think our people are. That's very important - not just because we want
happiness for them, but also because it'll make them the best for Oaktree and its clients. Our
favorite indicator: we think the 139 babies born to Oaktree employees and their spouses in these ten
years attest to a very positive mood.

What's the bottom line? All six of the Principals who started Oaktree with me in 1995 are still here.
I've worked with my nine fellow Principals for a total of 127 years (exemplified by Sheldon Stone,
with whom I'm about to celebrate my 22nd anniversary). In that time - believe it or not - there
hasn't been a heated argument or difficult negotiation among any of the ten of us. In twenty years
reaching back to our beginning at TCW, there have been only two departures of senior investment
professionals that weren't by mutual agreement (excluding the emerging markets group, which has
seen significant turnover). And everyone who managed a legacy strategy when we opened ten years
ago still manages it today. Certainly none of this is "par for the course" in the turbulent investment
industry.

Ownership - Initially, Oaktree was 100% owned by the founding Principals. Over the next ten
years we sold roughly 25% to key employees at a price equal to one times the coming year's
estimated earnings. This sharing of ownership has produced the desired results in terms of
teamwork, satisfaction, shared motivation and personnel retention. We feel it's essential that
Oaktree's employees work for the good of all clients, not just those in their own strategy. Broad
ownership helps us ensure that.

As you know, a year ago we sold roughly 6% of the firm to seven long-term clients at its fair market
value. Our objectives were achieved: personal diversification, of course, but - more importantly -
demonstration, by posting a real-world price, that the 60 non-Principal owners had done well and
been treated fairly. It's working entirely as we had hoped: the new investors are constructive but not
intrusive. What could be better? Doubtless you will see further sales of ownership to third parties
over time, but never transferring control. And of course ownership among employees will be
broadened further. In short, we like the idea of working together, but not of working for someone
else.

Plans for the Future - After reaching ten years and $28 billion, we run into a lot of people who
speak of Oaktree as an established investment institution. Happily, I can tell you my colleagues and
I still think of it as a startup, and nothing could bode better for the future. It means we're still
engaged and excited, still worried that being too relaxed or too confident could cause us to fail, and
still thinking about rising to meet the challenges ahead.

Our goals for the future are simple: more of the same. Performance that's consistently either good
or great. Relationships with terrific clients who always feel they're treated fairly. A harmonious
workplace shared by bright, happy colleagues who pull together. And, as a result, prudent growth
and continuing profitability. Who could ask for more?

The achievement of these goals will always be dependent on you, our clients. "We couldn't do it
without you," may sound hackneyed, but nothing could be more true. For the ability to work for
and with you, to visit and call you our clients, the people of Oaktree give their heartiest thanks.


Memo: There They Go Again.

Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time
 or in past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory.
 . . . There can be few fields of human endeavor in which history counts
 for so little as in the world of finance. Past experience, to the extent that it
 is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those who
 do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.

 John Kenneth Galbraith
 A Short History of Financial Euphoria, Viking, 1990

 The above observation has appeared in lots of my memos, second only to Warren
 Buffett's reminder that our need for prudence in a given situation is inversely
 proportional to the amount of prudence being displayed by other investors. Neither of
 these favorite quotations says much for the average investor: Buffett urges us to adopt
 behavior that is the opposite of John Q. Investor's, and Galbraith points out how prone
 John Q. is to repeating the mistakes of the past.

 It may sound cynical, but most outstanding investors - especially members of the "us
 school" (see "Us and Them," May 7, 2004) - understand that the path to superior results
 lies in taking advantage of other people's mistakes. (The alternative is to think everyone
 can succeed simultaneously.) It's when most investors take a trend to excess, or the price
 of an asset to an extreme, that the few people smart and resolute enough to abstain from
 herd behavior can make truly exceptional profits.

 I think both Buffett's and Galbraith's dim views of the average investor are well founded.
 Although there exist a few rules and reminders that can make it easier to avoid the
 costliest investing mistakes, most investors rarely heed them.

 Investors truly do make the same mistakes over and over. It may be different people
 doing it each time, and usually they do it in new fields and in connection with new assets,
 but it is the same behavior. As Mark Twain said, "History doesn't repeat itself, but it
 rhymes."

 Rarely is the same error repeated in back-to-back years. Usually enough time passes for
 the repetitive pattern to go unnoticed and for the lessons to be forgotten. Often it's a new
 generation repeating the errors of their forefathers. But the patterns are there, if you
 observe with the benefit of objectivity and a long-term view of history.

 Why do the mistakes repeat? That's a good question, but not much of a mystery. First,
 few investors have been around long enough to recognize reoccurrence of the errors of
 twenty or forty years ago. And second, the greed that argues for ignoring "the old rules"
 easily trumps caution; hope truly does spring eternal. That's especially true when the
 good times are rolling. The tendency to ignore the rules invariably reaches its apex in
 periods when following them has cost people money. It is thus, as Galbraith points out,
 that those who harp on the lessons of the past are dismissed as old fogies. What are some
 of the recurring mistakes investors make?

 It's Different This Time - Trends in investing are carried to their greatest (and most
 punishing) extremes by the belief that something has changed - that rules that applied
 in the past have been rendered obsolete by new circumstances. (E.g., the traditional
 standards for reasonable valuations weren't applicable to shares in tech companies
 whose products were likely to change the world.)

 It Can't Miss - The fact is, anything can miss. There's no asset so good or trend so
 strong that you can't lose money betting on it. No investment technique is guaranteed
 to deliver high returns or keep risk low. Smoothly functioning markets don't permit
 the combination of high return and low risk to persist - good results bring in buyers
 who raise prices, lowering future returns and elevating risk. It'll never be
 otherwise.

 The Explanation Couldn't Be Simpler - By this I mean to poke some fun at
 investors' tendency to fall for stories that seem true on the surface but ignore the
 workings of markets. The stage was set for some of the greatest debacles by
 platitudes that were easy to swallow - but too simplistic and, in the end, just plain
 wrong. These include "For a company with good enough growth prospects, there's
 no such thing as too high a price" (1969 and 1999) and "Emerging markets are a sure
 thing because of the terrific potential for growth in per capita consumption" (1994).

 This Tree Will Grow to the Sky - The fact is, no trend will go on unabated forever.
 Most trends are limited by cycles, which are caused by people's reaction to
 developments. Buyers, sellers and competitors respond to trends, altering the current
 landscape and the future.

 The Positives of Today Will Still Be Positives Tomorrow - From time to time,
 some combination of optimism and greed convinces people that the favorable
 elements in the current environment - responsible for today's high asset prices - will
 stay that way. But (a) things usually turn less rosy, and (b) even before they do,
 investors take prices to levels that are too high even for today's positives.

 Past Returns Are a Good Guide to Future Returns - The greatest bubbles stem
 from the belief that high returns in the past foretell high returns in the future. The
 most successful investors - the longest-term survivors - believe in just the opposite:
 regression to the mean. The things that have appreciated the most will slow down (or

 decline), and those that lagged will catch up or move ahead. Instead of being
 encouraged by months or years of price appreciation, investors should be
 forewarned.

 It'll Always Beat the Cost of Borrowing - Speculative behavior usually features the
 belief that assets will always appreciate faster than the rate of interest paid on money
 borrowed to buy them with. We saw a lot of this in the inflationary 1970s. But for
 the most part, statements including the words "always" and "never" are usually a
 sign of trouble ahead.

 The Supply/Demand Picture Doesn't Matter - The relationship between supply
 and demand determines the price of everything. The higher the demand relative to
 the supply, the higher the price for a given asset or strategy. And, the higher the
 price, the lower the prospective return (all else being equal). Why can't
 investors remember these two absolute rules?

 Higher Risk Means Higher Return - There are times, especially when the
 prospective returns on low-risk investments appear inadequate, when people reach for
 more return by going out further on the risk curve. They forget that riskier
 investments don't necessarily bring higher returns, just higher projected returns.
 Forgetting the difference can be fatal.

 Anything's Better Than Cash - Because it entails the least risk, the prospective
 return on cash invariably is lower than all other investments. But that doesn't mean
 it's the least desirable. There are times when the valuations on other investments are
 so high that they entail too much risk.

 It May Be Too Good to Be True, But I Don't Want to Miss Out - There've been
 lots of times in my career when people knew something was unlikely to keep working
 but jumped on the bandwagon anyway. Usually they did so because they thought
 there was a little bit more left in the trend, or because not being aboard - and
 watching from the sidelines while others got rich - had become too painful.

 If It Stops Working, I'll Get Out - When people invest despite obvious danger
 signs, they usually do so under the belief that they'll be able to get out when the
 market turns down. They rarely ask how it is that they'll know to sell before
 others do, or to whom they'll sell if everyone else figures it out simultaneously.

 As I sit here in 2005, the picture seems "as plain as the nose on your face." Investors
 have found new darlings - real estate, private equity, hedge funds and crude oil - to
 replace the favorites of ancient history (that is 1999) - technology-media-telecom,
 biotech and venture capital funds. As I read articles about the new favorites, I find
 myself saying one thing over and over: "There they go again."

 Is it really that hard to remember the events of six years ago? Or is it just so easy to
 overlook them for the sake of hoped-for profit? Whichever it is, I'm going to take some

 time below to go through these areas and cite some rule violations I see occurring. (I'm
 not saying that these investment areas are without merit. It's just that I wince when I see
 uncritical analysis and unsupported conclusions.)

 Let's take the example of real estate. Almost twenty years ago, real estate was the site
 of many classic mistakes, and lots of money lost. In the mid-1980s, institutional
 investors charged into real estate, under banners like "They're not making it any more"
 and "It's a good inflation hedge." What they missed was the fact that:

 while it's true that no one's making more land, there's a lot left to develop, and
 easy access to capital enables market-glutting buildings to be built on it,

 something's only an inflation hedge if bought at a fair price to start with, and

 unlike the 1970s, inflation wouldn't be an issue for the next twenty years, and
 thus inflation protection wasn't worth paying up for.

 Tax reform in 1987 reduced the demand for tax shelter purposes, and the economic
 slowdown of the early 1990s turned real estate into a basket case. They still weren't
 U U

 making any more land, but that didn't help institutional investors avoid huge losses.

 Today, real estate seems to be the site of investing error again - with no one harking back
 to the last time around. This is especially true in private homes, with individuals rather
 than professionals doing most of the "investing." They're lining up to buy houses (often
 before they're built) that they never expect to occupy, for holding periods too short to
 repay the transaction costs in the absence of substantial appreciation, and they're
 financing them with maximum floating-rate mortgages, minimum amortization and little
 or no money down.

 On March 25, 2004, The New York Times compared attitudes toward home buying today
 and the "dot-com frenzy" of the late 1990s:

 . . . perhaps the most troubling similarity, some analysts say, is the claim
 that the rules have somehow changed. In an echo of the blasé attitude that
 "new economy" investors took toward unprofitable companies, the
 growing ranks of real estate investors are buying houses they never expect
 to be able to rent at a profit. Instead, they think the prices of houses will
 just keep rising.

 This paragraph points up a key error. In 1999, impassioned investors bought dot-com
 stocks, not to participate in the underlying companies' profit streams, but to sell them at
 higher prices. But what could be depended on to make their prices go higher, if not
 favorable trends in profits? In the same way, rational investors won't count on being able
 to sell a house at a profit because someone else will pay more for it, but rather because of
 an increase in its economic value (which usually can be seen in the obtainable rent).

 In that vein, The Wall Street Journal of March 22 carried a story comparing the cost of
 buying and renting. A study of 21 markets by Torto Wheaton Research had found that
 rent on the average two-bedroom apartment was well below the mortgage payment on the
 median home. Now certainly the two may not be comparable, and the study ignored such
 factors as down payments, tax deductions, property taxes, maintenance costs and
 appreciation. But the most important observation is that, based on national averages, the
 relationship has changed substantially over the last four years: rent now averages 92% of
 mortgage payments, down from 102% in 2001.

 This relative increase in mortgage payments indicates that today, home prices are based
 on lower "cap rates." The capitalization rate on a piece of real estate is the yield implicit
 in the sale price. Thus a cap rate is analogous to the earnings yield on a stock, which in
 turn is the reciprocal of its p/e ratio. Bottom line: home prices have risen substantially
 relative to the underlying (or implicit) cash flows. According to another study, by M/PF
 YieldStar, the price of the average home rose 16.4% in 2003-4, while the average rent
 was flat. Certainly real estate valuation ratios are up.

 Why are homebuyers paying these higher valuations? Here are some answers, in the
 form of statements quoted in the New York Times article cited above. How many of the
 investor errors enumerated on pages 2-3 do you see below?

 It's driven by the same forces [as drove the dot-com stocks]: that
 investments can't go bad; that it has the potential to make you rich; that
 you'll regret it if you don't do it; that it looks expensive but really is not.

 . . . a limited supply of land coupled with demand from baby boomers and
 foreigners [will] prolong the boom indefinitely.

 I don't think prices are going to fall, and I don't think they're even going
 to be flat.

 It really is a very hot real estate market, and I don't know how long it's
 going to continue. But in the short run, why not profit from it?

 I look at this as a short-term investment and plan to unload it as soon as
 things look dangerous.

 I'd bet none of the people quoted above lost money in the last real estate cycle or learned
 the lessons of the past. It's for that reason that they're prone to mistake the up-leg of
 yet another cycle for a new and permanent miracle. And so it goes.

 The commercial, retail and residential properties that professionals buy have escalated
 also - although not as crazily or with as much disregard for valuation. Nevertheless, cap
 rates are down in response to the general decline in interest rates, demanded returns and
 risk premiums. With returns on Treasury bonds at 4-5%, fully leased class "A" office
 buildings apparently look good at 6-7%.

 As usual, James Grant supplies a trenchant analysis, this time in the April 25 issue of
 Forbes. His summary of what's going on in real estate highlights time-honored mistakes
 that are being repeated:

 Markets look forward, except when they look backward. At this moment
 the real estate market is looking backward. . . .

 Mistaking the past for the future, people are pouring money into houses,
 shopping centers, office buildings, hotels, anything with a front door and a
 roof. They are paying some of the fanciest prices on record.

 Property bulls come in all sizes, shapes and net worths. "We are living
 with the greatest liquidity ever," an eminent REIT promoter was quoted as
 saying in March in the New York Sun. "We're not going to have a crash
 in the real estate market, there is too much liquidity."

 Liquidity is a term of art. It means lots of money. It can also mean - and,
 in 2005, does mean - "low interest rates," "E-Z financing terms," "low
 dollar exchange rate" and "value investors go away." In an evident state
 of liquidity-induced euphoria, a Miami Realtor recently proclaimed to The
 New York Times, "South Florida is working off a totally new economic
 model than any of us has ever experienced in the past."

 Not true. The "South Florida economic model" is the oldest in the book.
 An excess of dollars leads to a drop in interest rates. And a drop in
 interest rates to a rise in real estate prices. And a rise in prices to massive
 new building.

 Only later does the same surplus of dollars cause a rise in the inflation
 rate. This leads to a rise in interest rates. And to a drop in real estate
 prices, with the market now oversupplied by all that new building.

 In other words, we see some instances where investors in real estate are:

 failing to recognize the transitory nature of the factors supporting prices,
 taking comfort from rising prices while they should be alarmed,
 overlooking the lessons of history, and
 declaring "it's different this time."

 As Grant points out, "over the last ten years, bricks and mortar had a cash on cash return
 averaging 3.3 percentage points above the yield on the ten-year Treasury note. . . .
 Today, the yield is just 1 percentage point more than that not-very-high number (the ten-
 year is quoted at 4.5%)." In other words, properties used to provide a solid 3.3% spread
 over perhaps 6% on the ten-year, for a total return approaching 10%. Now there's a
 narrow 1% spread over a low base rate . . . for a total current return of 5.5%. The bottom

 line is that investors in real estate today have to stress value consciousness and
 selectivity.

 It's not my intention here to pick on real estate in particular or to suggest that it's worse
 than other markets. It's just that the articles being written about it provide such good
 examples of some investors' error-proneness.

 As I wrote in October, I think we're seeing much of the same in hedge funds. Investors
 here are ignoring price also - this time not relating to the underlying assets, but to fund
 managers' services. Out of frustration with public, long-only equities (based with the
 usual hindsight on the 2000-02 debacle), they're looking for the silver bullet in "alpha
 managers" and "absolute return strategies." And they're suspending disbelief - just like
 they do at the movies - to accept that it's possible each year to find thousands of new
 above-average managers who are capable of piloting thousands of new hedge funds to
 high returns with low risk in increasingly competitive markets.

 In recent weeks, private equity has shown up as the belle of the ball. Managers who
 startled the world with $3-6 billion funds a few years ago are pursuing $8-10 billion this
 time with good success. They're able to get it because of recent performance swollen by
 generous capital market conditions, aided by the assertion that few funds will be big
 enough to compete for the mega-deals. I don't say these arguments are invalid, but I
 wonder if investors are worrying enough about some potentially troubling factors:

 the fact that the funds' managers are targeting their lowest returns ever - even though
 few of their past funds may have achieved their targets,

 the impact on the market for companies of five new funds with $50 billion to spend -
 and the possibly underrated likelihood that additional managers will crowd into the
 "mega" space (I still hold that when the best are closed, the rest will be funded), and

 the effect on the managers themselves of $100-plus million per year in non-
 performance-based fees.

 Lastly, the recent price surge has made crude oil fertile ground for simplistic platitudes
 and the resulting investor error. Not only aren't they making any more, but our
 consumption increases every day; rapid growth in China and India implies massive
 further increases in demand; and much of the supply is in unreliable hands. None of
 these factors can be disputed. The key question is, "What do they make oil worth?"

 I think it's important to note that, unlike cash flow-positive companies and profit-
 producing companies, it's hard to state the intrinsic value of a commodity or currency.
 Are you persuaded by the arguments above? Sure you are - I am, too. Do they make oil
 a buy today, at $51 a barrel? Certainly. But weren't they just as true a month ago, when
 oil hit $58? Didn't they make it a buy then, too? Just as with gold and the Euro, it's hard
 to say what the right price is to reflect a given set of fundamentals, and whether the

 market price is too high or too low. This inability allows prices to fluctuate much more
 than fundamentals, and makes profitable investment in these things challenging.

 * * *

 Lately I've been speaking a lot from my last general memo, "Risk and Return Today"
 (October 27, 2004). In it I expressed my view that (1) the Capital Market Line today is
 "low and flat," meaning prospective returns in almost all markets are among the lowest
 we've ever seen, and risk premiums the narrowest, and (2) if prospective returns should
 rise, it'll likely happen through price declines. Nobody yet has said they disagree with
 these statements, and I don't think they're just being polite.

 But the hard question is, "What can we do about it?"

 Invest as if it's not true. The trouble with this is that "wishing won't make it so."
 Simply put, it doesn't make sense to expect traditional returns when elevated asset
 prices suggest they're not available. I was pleased to get a letter from Peter Bernstein
 in response to my memo, in which he said something wonderful: "The market's not a
 very accommodating machine; it won't provide high returns just because you need
 them."

 Invest anyway - accepting relative returns (and the possibility of capital losses.)

 Invest anyway - ignoring short-run risk and focusing on the long run. This isn't
 irrational, especially if you accept the notion that market timing and tactical asset
 allocation are difficult. But before taking this path, I'd suggest that you get a
 commitment from your investment committee or other constituents that they'll ignore
 short-term losses.

 Hold cash - but that's tough for people who need to meet an actuarial assumption or
 spending rate; who want their money to be "fully employed" at all times; or who'll be
 uncomfortable (or lose their jobs) if they have to watch for long as others make
 money they don't.

 Concentrate your investments in "special niches and special people," as I've been
 droning on about for the last couple of years. But that gets harder as the size of your
 portfolio grows. And identifying managers with truly superior talent, discipline and
 staying power certainly isn't easy.

 The truth is, there's no easy answer for investors faced with skimpy prospective returns
 and risk premiums. But there is one course of action - one classic mistake - that I most
 strongly feel is wrong: reaching for return.

 Given today's paucity of prospective return at the low-risk end of the spectrum and the
 solutions being ballyhooed at the high-risk end, many investors are moving capital to
 riskier (or at least less traditional) investments. But (a) they're making those riskier
 investments just when the prospective returns on those investments are the lowest they've
 ever been; (b) they're accepting return increments for stepping up in risk that are as slim
 as they've ever been; and (c) they're signing up today for things they turned down (or did
 less of) in the past, when the prospective returns were much higher. This may be exactly
 the wrong time to add to risk in pursuit of more return. You want to take risk when
 others are fleeing from it, not when they're competing with you to do so.

 "If you can't get the return you need from safe investments, make risky investments."
 When put that way, it doesn't make much sense. In fact, it reminds me of my father's
 joke about the inveterate gambler who said, "I hope I break even, because I need the
 money."

 * * *

 If you look back at the recurring mistakes listed at the beginning of this memo, you'll see
 some common threads. They all express wishful thinking, an inevitable part of human
 nature. They stem from an excessive proclivity to believe the positives - and disregard
 the negatives - prompted by the desire to make money.

 The key ingredients in being able to avoid these mistakes should be pillars in everyone's
 investment approach:

 awareness of history,
 belief in cycles rather than unabated, unidirectional trends,
 skepticism regarding the free lunch, and
 insistence on low purchase prices that provide lots of room for error.

 Adherence to these things - all parts of the canon of defensive investing - invariably will
 cause you to miss the most exciting part of bull markets, when trends reach irrational
 extremes and prices go from fair to excessive. But they'll also make you a long-term
 survivor. I can't help thinking that's a prerequisite for investment success.


Memo: A Case in Point.

Last month, my memo "There They Go Again" discussed investors' propensity to repeat certain
classic mistakes. The biggest of these mistakes stem from some combination of too much
enthusiasm, optimism, naiveté and greed and too little realism and skepticism. Although it
comes in a wide variety of forms, the bottom line is usually a belief that the "silver bullet" is at
hand: a surefire route to wealth without risk.

In recent years we've seen the elevation of one such particular strategy, and in recent months its
defrocking. The subject is convertible arbitrage. Its story is worthy of review.

 Background on Convertible Arbitrage (Perhaps More Than You Want)

Properly, arbitrage refers to the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same thing, or of two
things that are nearly the same, at different prices so as to lock in a small profit on a highly
probable basis. I was introduced to this phenomenon in the 1950s by an old movie about the
Rothschild brothers, who spread out to five European cities and used information transmitted by
carrier pigeon (at a time when there was no telephone or telegraph) to simultaneously buy and
sell currencies in those far-flung cities at different exchange rates. Market opportunities are
rarely that glaring nowadays, but they do arise from time to time.

Convertible securities are candidates for arbitrage because one asset (a convertible bond or
preferred) is exchangeable for another (the underlying common stock). Thus imperfections in
this market can create opportunities to simultaneously buy one asset and sell the other, giving
rise to frequent small profits with little risk. Of course, the arbitrageur must be skillful enough
to identify the opportunities and take advantage of them.

Time for an aside: Many years ago, Ed Thorp, an MIT professor of mathematics, literally
"wrote the book" on blackjack. It's called "Beat the Dealer." Thorp used computers to
simulate the play of the cards and codify the "basic strategy" that virtually all serious blackjack
players use today to decide when to split, double down, hit or stick. Use of the basic strategy
can significantly reduce (but not eliminate) the casino's advantage. From quantifying the basic
strategy, Thorp went on to formalize the process of card counting. Because blackjack is dealt
from a deck or "shoe" without shuffling after every hand, the cards that have been played
determine the cards that remain - in statistical terms, the hands aren't "independent." This
means if a player can keep track of the cards that have been played, his knowledge of what
remains can give him an advantage over the house. Recently the profitable use of card counting
was chronicled in the enjoyable book "Bringing Down the House." Card counting was used to
such great advantage that casinos fought for, and won, the right to throw out counters.

Of course, when the casinos became able to evict card counters, they went straight for Ed
Thorp. Needing a new "gig," Thorp turned his attention to another field in which subjective
judgment could be improved upon through computer simulation: convertible arbitrage (I'll bet
you were wondering what blackjack had to do with the subject of this memo). Thus Thorp
pioneered the conversion from art to science of a second potentially profitable field.

In convertible arbitrage, someone buys a security that can be exchanged for common shares,
and he sells short some of those same shares. Let's say a bond is convertible into 40 shares and
those shares are selling at $20. Thus the value of the stock underlying the bond (the
"conversion value") is $800. The bond usually won't sell at $800, but rather at some higher
price.

One reason for this is that the bond embodies an option on that $800 worth of stock (plus the
means to pay for it by surrendering the bond). This combination is worth more than $800,
because an option provides a way to participate in an asset's upside potential but not its
downside. In addition, (a) a US convertible is likely to yield more than its underlying common
stock, and (b) being senior to the common stock, it will entail less exposure to credit problems.
So the bond may sell at $1,000 when the common stock is $20 and the conversion value is
$800. That implies a "conversion premium" of $200, or 25% of the $800 conversion value.

The arbitrageur buys the bond and shorts the stock. If the stock goes up (producing a loss in the
short position), he expects the bond to go up almost as much (producing a gain in the "long"
position). If he has more money invested in the bond than he does in the short position on the
stock, the result can be reasonably attractive. If the stock goes down (producing a gain in the
short position), he expects the bond - buoyed by the income and the promise of redemption at
maturity - to go down substantially less (producing a smaller loss in the long position), for an
overall result that is very positive. The arbitrageur hopes for a reasonable mix of appreciating
stocks (with decent results on the arb positions) and declining stocks (with highly attractive
results), and he has the ability to use leverage to magnify this steady flow of modest profits. In
addition, he receives more income on the converts he owns than he owes on the stock he's short.
It's hoped that the above elements will combine to produce a consistently positive return.

Obviously, the open question is how many shares to short in order to create the desired
performance pattern. Because the relationship between the market price of the convertible and
the market price of the shares isn't constant, figuring out how much stock to short against a
given bond purchase - the "hedge ratio" - has its vagaries.

Generally, a properly priced convertible will capture a certain percentage of the underlying
stock's gains and a somewhat smaller percentage of its losses. That means the percentage of the
stock's price movement captured by the bond is variable, rendering imprecise the proper
number of shares to short per $1,000 bond. And that number usually is less than the number of
shares into which the bond is convertible. This is because convertible bonds are less volatile
than the underlying shares, and the arbitrageur wants both sides of the position to be equally
volatile. Thus he won't short the full number of shares the bond is convertible into.

There's no one "right" answer regarding the hedge ratio. Setting it entails estimation regarding
the future volatility of the common stock among other things. Thorp's methodology helped him
to profitably determine hedge ratios.

UThe Backdrop

As the interest in hedge funds rose over the last ten years, "convert arb" became the model of an
absolute return strategy. It seemed capable of grinding out returns in the teens almost every
year. This occurred without significant exposure to market fluctuations, because every position
was hedged.

The table below shows the 1995-2003 returns for the market-weighted index of convertible
arbitrage funds in the CSFB/Tremont Arbitrage Index.

 Year Annual Return 3-Year Return 5-Year Return 9-Year Return

12.8% per year for nine years. Only one down year in nine, and that a loss of just 4.4%. No
three-year period with an annualized return worse than 8.3%. No five-year period not in double
digits. What a record!!

1BU Rule Number One: Money Matters

So what happens? Money floods in. Whereas a few smart people had been able to churn out
consistently good results with small amounts of capital, now a crowd was fighting over the
convert arb ideas, armed with much more money. Increased pursuit of a strategy is sure to drive
down prospective returns. If in a less crowded period the process of convertible arbitrage
appeared capable of producing an inherent return in the low double digits (or maybe LIBOR
plus 5%), it should be expected to produce less after others have flocked to it.

In addition, I feel arbitrage and many other hedge fund activities are best thought of as
"piggybacking" strategies, living off some underlying process that has a life of its own (see the
big fish/little fish analogy in "Hedge Funds: A Case For Caution"). What I mean is that as long
as thousands of investors are setting the prices in the convertible bond and stock markets

through their buying and selling, a few dozen astute arbitrageurs can dart in on occasion to take
advantage of their mistakes. But what if the arbitrageurs come to outnumber the "long-only"
convert investors, so that their buying power directly affects (in this case, raises) the prices of
convertibles relative to the underlying stocks. That can change the game, and thus the
dependability and profitability of convertible arbitrage. This was certainly the case in 2004,
when at times 80% of all convertible buying was thought to be from arbitrageurs. They didn't
care as much as the long-only crowd about the issuers and the price attractiveness of the
underlying securities; rather, they would buy almost anything to put on an arb position.

When I organized Citibank's first convertible fund in 1978, convertibles found few regular
buyers and were considered a somewhat disreputable market of last resort for corporate
financing. This level of disregard permitted convertible prices to languish. Most of the time I
felt the convertibles I bought were considerably cheaper than a corresponding package of more
efficiently priced bond plus stock from the same company.

For the next two decades, the same cheapness that had given our portfolios risk-adjusted returns
better than stocks made it possible for convert arbitrageurs to buy underpriced convertibles and
short fully priced common stocks. This was a formula for steady profits. But if money floods
in such that bargains become less widespread among convertibles, it seems reasonable to
suspect that convertible arbitrage will become less profitable.

In 2004, the return on the CSFB/Tremont convertible arbitrage index subsided to 2.0%. For the
first four months of 2005, it was negative 5.8%. April was the fifth worst month out of the last
136. The index declined in only 14 of the 108 months from 1995 through 2003, but in 9 of the
12 months through April. January, February, March and April were all negative, the first time
there have ever been four down months in a row. And May was the fifth - down almost 2%
more. What changed? Mostly, I think, the amount of money being managed in the sector.

Bottom line: the returns available from an investment strategy are not independent of the
amount of money seeking to be deployed in that strategy. More simply put: everything else
being equal, more money means lower returns. This seems elementary, but it appears to be
ignored every time something does well for a while. I repeat for the umpteenth time: what the
wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end.

 Rule Number Two: There's No Sure Thing

If there's a "kiss of death" in the investment world, it's widespread belief that something
can't miss. When people have complete confidence in something, the prices they'll pay for
it and the amounts of money they'll try to jam into it will sound an absolute death knell
for its profitability. I've seen it in the nifty-fifty stocks, in oil stocks in the post-embargo
1970s, in disc drive companies, in portfolio insurance, in tech stocks and in venture capital.

In recent years, buying convertibles and shorting the underlying common shares came to be
accepted as a surefire technique. And what could be better than having a long position in the
senior securities of a company heading for trouble and a corresponding short position in its

common stock, with the likelihood that the stock would decline precipitously: no bet on the
direction of the market or the company, and absolute preparedness for negative developments.
That's the position the arbs flocked to this year in General Motors. They assumed the debt they
were long would hold up much better than the common they were short. What could go wrong?

Well, something can always go wrong, and things are most dangerous when people agree
they can't (and price them accordingly). In the case of GM, the arbs got a double whammy:

 Billionaire Kirk Kerkorian stunned the financial world on May 4 by announcing his
 intention to bid $31 for 28 million shares of GM common stock. This drove the price of the
 stock from roughly $28 to $32, creating big losses on the arbs'short positions.

 Just the next day, S&P announced its long-expected downgrading of GM's credit rating.
 This lowered the price of GM debt, giving the arbs losses on their long positions as well.

In this way, something that "couldn't happen" did: the prices of both assets went against the
arbs simultaneously. If a company's bonds decline because of deteriorating creditworthiness,
can the stock possibly do better? It did this time - for a reason no one would have anticipated.
(People are still mystified regarding Kerkorian's motivation.) I don't think a company's stock
can do well for long if its bonds don't (given the implication of serious fundamental problems).
But the long run doesn't matter when unexpected difficulties arise in leveraged portfolios.
The effect on staying power can be very negative.

Other things we've seen recently that "couldn't happen": GM and GMAC being downgraded
simultaneously, and intermediate and long rates down substantially while short rates rose more
than 200 basis points.

As Long-Term Capital Management said in explaining its meltdown, "the convergence trades
diverged." In this case, I absolutely am not saying the arbs were foolhardy in putting on their
GM positions. I simply want to point out that nothing in the investment world can be counted
on to work 100% of the time. Allowance must always be made for the unexpected.

 Rule Number Three: Piling In Is Dangerous

One of the phenomena we've witnessed lately - and it was particularly pronounced in the events
surrounding Long-Term Capital Management - is the tendency of funds of a given type to flock
to the same situations. The General Motors trade described above, for example, was
particularly common among arbs. Thus, when it went wrong, they all suffered losses, and they
all faced illiquidity when they went to unwind it.

There's little mystery surrounding the reason particular trades become widespread. These days,
computers are used universally - especially in the more quantitative fields - to screen for
investment opportunities and model their profit potential. Not surprisingly, since they all sift
through the same universes and evaluate profitability similarly, they often highlight the same
investment opportunities. When everyone tries to pile in, that raises the cost of implementing

the strategy and thus lowers the prospective return. And when everyone wants to get out, that's
costlier too. This is an example of the way in which too many piggybackers - with the same
ideas - can overwhelm the underlying markets.

Rule Number Four: A "Virtuous Cycle" Can Turn Vicious
U

There is a predictable cyclical pattern in these matters, and now we've seen it in convertible
arbitrage:

 In the years leading up to 2004, convertibles were available "too cheap," and so arbitrage
 consistently produced high returns with low risk.
 The results were very attractive, drawing in capital.
 The new capital drove up prices, enhancing returns on existing positions.
 These returns attracted still more capital in a so-called "virtuous cycle."
 When too much money came in, bargains became scarcer, causing the free lunch to be
 removed. Also, convert arb money altered the terms on new convertible issuance, reflecting
 the arbitrageurs' preference for call protection over yield.
 Positions put on in the new environment didn't do as well as the old ones.
 Investors' faith weakened in 2004 and largely evaporated in April/May 2005.
 Withdrawals set in for real: $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004 and $1.8 billion in the
 first quarter of 2005.
 The withdrawals caused forced selling, and the selling drove down prices, exacerbating the
 losses - and causing more loss of faith and thus more withdrawals and more forced selling.
 Now we think convertibles are getting cheap again, and we're considering increasing our
 allocation to them in our discretionary accounts.

 * * *

It has always been thus, and it always will. Excessive confidence sets the stage for
disappointment, and the loss of confidence creates bargains. It's the job of all investors to
maintain their equanimity, buying in panics and selling in bubbles. That'll be the day!

Convertible arbitrage isn't "over." The possibility of its application will always exist . . . but the
assurance of high returns with low risk will not. They'll only be available when the amounts of
money pursuing the strategy are reasonable, so that practitioners can be patient and selective
and pick from an attractively priced universe. And in that way convertible arbitrage isn't
any different from any other investment technique. Anyway, this isn't a memo about
convertible arbitrage, but about investors' persistent mistakes. Convertible arbitrage is just a
case in point.


Memo: Hindsight First, Please (or, What Were They Thinking?).

"The farther backward you can look, the farther forward you can see."
 - Winston Churchill

 I often cite John Kenneth Galbraith's observation that one of the outstanding hallmarks of
 the financial world is "the extreme brevity of the financial memory." Investors lose
 money over and over because they simply forget that cycles are inevitable and there's no
 such thing as a free lunch. Now I've found a great quotation from Churchill, also
 reminding us that foresight comes largely from awareness of history.

 Along similar lines, I'm struck by the extent to which a related factor, inadequate
 skepticism, also contributes to investment losses. Getting the most out of a book, play or
 movie usually requires "willing suspension of disbelief." We're glad to overlook the
 occasional plot glitch, historical inaccuracy or physical impossibility because it increases
 our enjoyment. When we watch Peter Pan, we don't want to hear the person sitting next
 to us say, "I can see the wires" (even though we know they're there). While we know
 boys can't fly, we don't care; we're just there for fun.

 But our purpose in investing is serious, not fun, and we must constantly be on the lookout
 for things that can't work in real life. In short, the process of investing requires a strong
 dose of disbelief. Time and time again, the post mortems of financial debacles
 include two classic phrases: "It was too good to be true" and "What were they
 thinking?" I'm writing to explore why these observations are so often invoked in
 the past tense.

 The combination of greed and optimism repeatedly leads people to pursue strategies they
 hope will produce high returns without high risk; pay elevated prices for securities that
 are in vogue; and hold things after they have become highly priced in the hope there's
 still some appreciation left. Afterwards, hindsight shows everyone what went wrong: that
 expectations were unrealistic and risks were ignored.

 It is my point that:

 Investors mustn't dwell excessively on recent experience.
 Instead, they must look to the future.
 They must consider today's developments critically.
 That assessment must take place in the light of history's lessons.

 All too often, investors' interest in the past is limited to the last few months or perhaps a
 year or two. They look unskeptically, are dazzled by the high returns they see, and jump
 aboard for more of the same. But they usually fail to consider longer-term history, which
 would show that "free lunches" never last forever. When the check ultimately comes in
 the form of losses, there's surprise and disappointment that could have been avoided.

 Time after time when I read about trends being taken to excess - and later, when the
 painful consequences become clear - I find myself asking what they could have been
 thinking. The alpha that's so much in demand today is really the ability to see ahead
 to things others will see only afterwards, in the rearview mirror. The people of
 Oaktree spend a lot of their time figuring out what might be the next mistake and
 preparing for it. In other words, we try to anticipate - and avoid - pitfalls that others will
 rue after the fact.

 Caveat Emptor

 Today's financial cause célèbre is the Bayou group of hedge funds. Results were
 falsified and a lot of money has disappeared. It's easy to make a list of those who
 deserve blame in this affair, but few of the articles I see focus on the people I think
 should head the list: the funds' investors.

 We live in an age when fingers are pointed at others all the time. Losers feel aggrieved
 and sue. That's what Bayou's investors will do, and certainly they were defrauded. But
 what was their part in the process? Where was their disbelief when they swallowed the
 following:

 They put their trust in a manager who claimed to have been a senior trader at Leon
 Cooperman's Omega Fund. But Leon - who denies that claim - says he got only one
 call over the years to verify it, while investors poured hundreds of millions into the
 fund.

 They invested in funds that executed trades through a brokerage firm owned by the
 funds' manager. Didn't they worry about the conflict that arises when a manager
 makes more money when his fund trades more often?

 They invested with managers who were the subject of complaints and lawsuits
 alleging improper conduct; these things can be checked out but apparently weren't. It
 seems investors took comfort from the fact that the brokerage affiliate was licensed
 by the NASD. What they missed, however, was the fact that the NASD would police
 the conduct of the brokerage arm but not the fund or its management.

 They went into funds whose auditors they'd never heard of. They couldn't have
 heard of them, because they'd never audited anyone. And if they had asked, they
 would've learned that the accounting firm's registered principal was the hedge fund's
 CFO.

 Some invested on the recommendation of people claiming to be hedge fund
 consultants. But in many cases these "advisers" disclosed that they were being paid
 by the funds they recommended. How could investors have relied on what so
 obviously could be biased advice?

 In the case of Bayou - as in other scams before and others to come - it's clear that a
 drawerful of cash provides a strong incentive to steal. But if that's so obvious today,
 shouldn't it have been obvious to people before they became investors? Shouldn't that
 have encouraged caution? As The Wall Street Journal wrote on September 30 regarding
 Bayou's founders, "Such tidbits from the duo's business backgrounds were easy to find
 via Internet research and other inquiries." Thus the bottom line is a simple one, and
 instructive. Which of Bayou's limited partners would have invested if they had
 known the above facts? And why didn't they know them?

 Stocks for the Long Run
 U

 Going from the micro to the macro, another subject that suddenly looks a lot different in
 retrospect is the likely return on U.S. stocks. When I was in graduate school at the
 University of Chicago in 1967-69, I learned that its Center for Research in Security
 Prices had input the closing price for every stock every day since 1929 and computed that
 the average yearly return on U.S. equities had been a shade over 9%.

 Later, a few more years of good returns had raised the historic figure - and thus
 expectations for future returns - to the range of 10-11%. And from the late 1960s
 through the late 1990s, nothing - and I mean nothing - was more universal than the
 belief that stocks could be relied on for 9-11% per year. I don't think I've ever seen
 an assumption that was less questioned than this one.

 The next step in cementing this expectation was the publication of "Stocks For the Long
 Run" by Wharton's Jeremy Siegel, one of the nation's highest-rated professors. Siegel's
 message had the effect of minimizing worry about the variability of equity returns. He
 demonstrated with past data that stocks could be depended on to beat cash, bonds and
 inflation over the long term. In the popular perception, this morphed into an expectation
 that stocks could be depended on to beat cash, bonds and inflation . . . period.

 Along with the boom in tech/media/telecom stocks and the first-day gains of IPOs,
 Siegel's data contributed to one of the greatest equity manias of all times. Of course, it
 evaporated after the TMT stocks collapsed in 2000 and was buried as the major stock
 averages did the unthinkable, declining for three straight years for the first time since the
 Great Crash.

 So what do people expect from stocks today? Equity investors now realize that p/e ratios
 are too high for multiple expansion to be counted on, and that dividend yields have
 declined from 4-7% in 1925-55 and 3-4% in 1955-95 to 1-2% in the last ten years. Thus,

 they conclude they may have to look just to profits growth for their returns, and that's
 likely to be in the mid-single digits as usual. As a result, in my view, everyone's thinking
 6-7%. No one's talking about 9-11% anymore.

 What changed? There's nothing new about the argument contained in the paragraph just
 above. The cautious were making it in the 1990s. When stocks were rolling along,
 however, it had little persuasive power. With stocks high, expectations regarding
 future returns were high. The S&P 500 is 20% lower today than it was in 2000, on
 higher earnings, so it's demonstrably cheaper in p/e ratio terms (even if not necessarily
 cheap). And with stocks lower, expectations regarding future returns are lower.

 Can there be a more clear-cut case of hindsight prevailing? I don't think so. And by the
 way, in the late '90s, people were sure stocks held the key to investment performance,
 and were pushing up their allocations. Some got to 80% just in time for the crash. I may
 not travel in the right circles, but it's been years since I last heard of an institutional
 investor that wants to increase its allocation to domestic equities. If they're correct
 now, what were they thinking in the late '90s?

 If Not Stocks, Then What?

 Since no one wants to increase allocations to U.S. stocks (or high grade bonds, for
 that matter), where's the money going? The answer is, just about anyplace else.
 Everyone knows there's too much money looking for a home in buyouts, venture capital,
 distressed debt, hedge funds, real estate, and on and on. But that isn't keeping more from
 flowing there.

 I love that terrific Yogi-ism: No one goes there anymore; it's too crowded. But the
 corollary is appropriate for the alternative investing world of today: Because it's so
 crowded, everyone wants to go there.

 Buyouts represent a great case in point today. It's a simple business (execution aside).
 You buy a company with a little equity and a lot of debt. If you buy it right, if you can
 make it a better company, and if you run into an environment characterized by a strong
 economy, freely available capital and rising asset prices, you'll be able to sell it for more
 than you paid for it, pay off the debt and enjoy a leveraged return. The theory is clear,
 but (like everything else in the investment world) it doesn't always work.

 It worked very well from its inception around 1973 to roughly 1985, a period in which it
 was cheaper to buy a company through the stock market than start it and no one had ever
 heard of Henry Kravis. Then LBOs became enormously popular in the late 1980s, and
 companies were bought at ever-higher prices and ever-higher leverage ratios. Many of
 those went bankrupt in 1990 (causing a boom for distressed debt investors, but that's
 another story). That's what we call a full cycle.

 Then a new cycle began, as it always will. Because the market was depressed in the early
 1990s, as were investors, companies could be bought cheap again. And with both
 borrowers and lenders chastened, no one had to worry about deals becoming over-
 leveraged. When a lengthy economic recovery ensued, those deals did well. (Even in the
 next heyday for distressed debt investors - 2002 - very few buyouts went bad.)

 But every trend eventually is carried to excess, and it's absolutely inevitable that "what
 the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end." So now everyone thinks
 buyouts hold the answer again. Everyone's emboldened rather than chastened. And
 everyone's enticed by the recent returns, which in many cases have been eye-popping.

 What's been happening? Simply put, the stars have been perfectly aligned for buyout
 success. In the recession, the scandals and the stock market malaise of the early 2000s,
 companies could again be bought reasonably. Lenders became motivated to put out
 capital, so higher leverage could be piled on at low interest rates. The economy turned
 strong, and business recovered. As increased capital flowed to buyout funds, the
 competition to buy companies - even from other buyout funds - drove up prices. And
 most crazily, lenders became willing to extend debt capital so that equity sponsors could
 take out their investment in short order. Nothing could be better for buyout returns than
 the ability to minimize your equity investment, increasing the extent to which returns are
 geared up. Thus the deals made in the last year or two have produced great returns.

 But that doesn't mean the returns on deals made today and tomorrow will be similarly
 high. Will the favorable trends continue, or will they reverse? Will companies be
 costlier? Will interest rates rise? Will the economic environment continue to be
 salutary? Will leverage have the effect of magnifying gains or losses? Will the mega-
 fund managers do as well with $10 billion funds in the environment of tomorrow as they
 did with $3-6 billion in the past, with the stars aligned beautifully? No one knows the
 answers, but investors should be asking these questions.

 I recently had a visit from the head of one of America's largest pension funds. He agreed
 with me that money is flowing to buyouts (and other forms of alternative investment)
 mainly because no one wants more mainstream stocks and bonds. He also pointed out
 that people are making these investments to capture the "illiquidity premium." The
 illiquidity premium and its cousin, the risk premium, are return increments that illiquid
 and risky investments should deliver to compensate for their illiquidity and riskiness. If
 return premiums couldn't be expected, investors wouldn't make those investments. But
 the fact that something's illiquid or risky absolutely does not mean that a return
 premium can be depended on to materialize - and certainly not in short-run periods
 as brief as 5 or 10 years.

 It seems like a long time ago that people talked about the equity risk premium: the
 amount of return in excess of bond returns that stocks would deliver to compensate for
 their riskiness. But, again, the fact that it should have been there doesn't mean it was. In
 2000-02, it certainly did not show up.

 Investors should demand return premiums, but they shouldn't count on them. They
 should try to figure out whether they're in prospect - and as "prospect" implies,
 that's done by looking forward, not backward. The fact that return was there in the
 past doesn't mean it'll be there in the future. And, in fact, if too much return was
 earned in the past, that implies not much may be left for the future.

 The Impact of Oil Prices
 U

 I'll try to be brief here. If I told you the government had just enacted a $125 billion
 annual tax increase, you might think consumer purchasing would be crushed, business
 strangled and stocks beaten down.

 Thus I'm incredulous that, with the price of oil (of which we import 12 million
 barrels a day) having risen from $33/barrel in January 2004 to $62 today, the stock
 market is still up (albeit not much). What is a price increase on imported oil other than
 an enormous tax increase, with the proceeds going abroad rather than to Washington?

 Maybe I'm just looking for the next thing to worry about (as usual). But if the economy
 slows in 2006 or 2007 and security prices decline, and people explain it all by citing the
 increased cost of oil, I hope you'll remember to ask people what they were thinking in

 By the way, I don't include this section because I want to discuss oil prices, but because
 the recent developments exemplify typical investor behavior. When investors as a
 group are feeling upbeat, the market is able to shrug off negatives as isolated and
 insignificant. When they're depressed, investors generalize individual complications
 into an insurmountable web of negatives. I feel it's very important that we be aware of
 whether the market is giving events their proper weight, versus overlooking or overrating
 them. When things develop that should be considered, it's a matter of "Pay me now or
 pay me later."

 U We're from the Government and We're Here to Help

 In 2002, at the height of the Enron/WorldCom corporate scandals, the federal government
 gazed unerringly into its own rearview mirror and demonstrated its ability to solve the
 last problem . . . and cause the next one. I've been looking for an opportunity to pop off
 on the subject of Sarbanes-Oxley, and here it is.

 There was little discussion or dissent before Congress passed - and the president signed -
 this piece of legislation designed to root out corporate corruption and hold executives
 responsible for future infractions. The vote should tell you something: 423 to 3 in the
 House and 99 to 0 in the Senate! Any time the Great Deliberators on both sides of the
 aisle agree on something so overwhelmingly, it's probably being done in the heat of the
 moment and in response to rampant popular sentiment - and it's probably a mistake.

 Let's look at the law's operation and effects. First, it required enormous one-time
 expenditures for the scrubbing of corporate books and the creation and assessment of
 control structures designed to avoid misdeeds. Second, it called for significant
 incremental ongoing expenditures along these lines.

 At a conference I attended recently, a venture capitalist estimated that the average
 company with revenues of $50-60 million faces increased costs of $1-11⁄2 million per year
 associated with being public. Larger companies are spending far more. I view this as an
 enormous tax on American business in perpetuity, and the benefits as far smaller than the
 cost.

 When the hue and cry was at its apex and this law was enacted, a widespread epidemic of
 corruption was suspected. It turned out that the early reports were the worst, and few
 additional cases were detected in the mandated examinations that followed. So as a result
 of about $10 billion in scandals - at Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia, Tyco and a few others
 - we've ended up with a law that will require the largely unproductive expenditure of
 many billions every year forever (or until rectified).

 And it's not as if we had no laws on fraud before Sarb-Ox. They were there, and they
 were enforced. It's just that in 2002, citizens, and thus politicians, became frustrated with
 the fact that the old laws didn't prevent all fraud or keep CEOs from saying, "I had no
 idea that was going on." Thus the government moved precipitously to enact new laws.
 It's worth noting in this connection that the executives of Tyco, Adelphia and WorldCom
 all were successfully prosecuted under the preexisting laws, while the major alleged
 malefactor targeted under Sarb-Ox - Richard Scrushy of HealthSouth - escaped
 punishment altogether.

 So has Sarb-Ox solved the problem? Mistakes made by generally honest managements
 will be identified in some cases, as they may have in the past, and some inept fraudsters
 will be caught. But I doubt the serious crooks will be prevented from taking a crack at
 robbing the cookie jar. And there is genuine risk that Sarb-Ox's single-minded emphasis
 on driving out fraud will have negative implications for corporate decision making.

 What will be the effect of all of the above on companies' future development, and on
 the free enterprise system that has done so much for America heretofore? That's
 what our government should be emphasizing - not an overblown reaction to the
 scandals of the past. If the shortcomings of regulation can be reduced to one, I think it's
 the inability to anticipate second-order consequences. My advice to Washington (not that
 anyone's asking): don't look back at the problems of yesterday, but ahead to the impact
 of your "solutions."

 Saving for Old Age

 Henny Youngman used to tell about being stuck up at gunpoint. When asked for "Your
 money or your life," he answered, "Take my life; I'm saving my money for my old age."

 Well, we rarely hear anymore about saving for old age. That's part of the financial
 prudence that has become hopelessly passé. After all, saving for later means consuming
 less today and delaying gratification, and those things are entirely out of style.

 But then how do people expect to live in their old age? People seem to be retiring earlier,
 and certainly they're living longer. Medical advances are prolonging life but not getting
 any cheaper. With retirement lasting longer and entailing greater costs, how will people
 pay their bills?

 Heretofore, the solution has been a stool with three legs: Social Security, private pensions
 and personal savings. How solidly constructed is the stool of today?

 We've heard a lot about Social Security's woes. The number of active workers
 supporting each retiree is declining, threatening the system with insolvency a few
 decades out. After reading (and reviewing for the L.A. Times) Pete Peterson's excellent
 book "Running on Empty," I'm convinced we'll need some combination of higher taxes,
 delayed retirement or reduced benefits . . . but equally convinced that few politicians are
 going to commit career suicide by advocating tough medicine to solve a problem that's
 decades away. Not having to worry about reelection, President Bush came out of his
 2004 victory willing to spend some political capital on his solution: the private retirement
 account. But no groundswell formed behind it, and other issues have taken center stage,
 and we haven't heard anything on this subject for months. One way or the other, I think
 retirees in the future will receive less from Social Security than the system promises
 today.

 So what about private pensions? Defined Benefit plans are declining in popularity
 among employers, and a not-insignificant number are headed for insolvency. Defined
 Contribution plans are taking their place in many cases, but some of the bloom is off the
 rose now that "401-k" and "Acapulco" have ceased to be synonymous. Certainly their
 benefits are expected to be less lavish and less dependable now than was thought to be
 the case while the equity bubble of 1998-99 was in full flower.

 And that leaves personal savings . . . which as a percent of income just went negative in
 July. I am amazed when I read about the people who spend all of their income and more
 on lifestyle. Maybe they think old age won't come, but that's not a solution I'd be
 eager to rely on. What about the millions - with no savings - who each year spend
 thousands of dollars more on their credit cards than they earn. How do they think this
 movie will end?

 Anyway, early Baby Boomers like myself are probably well taken care of, because we
 partook of the post-war economic miracle before it had to be shared broadly and heeded
 the lessons of thrift taught by our Depression-era parents. But I worry deeply that those
 who retire in the 2020s and thereafter will find themselves without the resources they
 need. I also worry that the government will write checks to cover the shortfall.
 Compassion is a good thing, but swollen deficits, higher taxes and the implications of
 teaching people they don't have to save are all very bad.

 When 2030 rolls around, with the centennial of the Depression, there's likely to be
 widespread wonder about what the non-savers of 2005 were thinking. I'd rather people
 started asking the relevant questions today.

 You Can Always Live in It

 Of course, the solution du jour for the question of wealth building is real estate. People
 are lining up to buy residences - especially condos - that they don't need, don't intend to
 occupy and can't rent out at prices providing a reasonable return on their investment, all
 in the expectation that they'll be able to sell them at a profit. That prompts me to coin a
 Yogi-ism of my own: My condo produces negative cash flow every month, but
 somebody else will pay me more for it than I paid.

 My May memo "There They Go Again" discussed the residential real estate boom in
 depth, and I'm not going to repeat its message. Suffice it to say that "It can only go up,"
 "It's been rising for months, but it's sure to keep going" and "If it starts to go down, I'll
 just get out" are routinely scoffed at after the fact.

 What I want to review here is the extent to which people are buying highly appreciated
 properties that they couldn't afford if they had to pay full debt service on them on a
 current basis. This is entirely analogous to the highly leveraged buyouts of the 1980s that
 depended on zero-coupon borrowing. This debt was a big red flag: "I'm buying
 something I can't afford, with debt I can't service on a current basis, hoping positive
 developments will bail me out." Most of them went bankrupt in 1990 when the economy
 softened and debt couldn't be refinanced.

 Now people are assuming increased financial risk to buy homes, often taking out interest-
 only loans at artificially low teaser rates. The September 2005 issue of The Gloom,
 Boom & Doom Report quoted Grant's Interest Rate Observer quoting David Rosenberg
 of Merrill Lynch:

 An estimated 42% of first-time buyers made no down payment on their home
 purchase in 2004.
 In the hottest price areas in the U.S.A., ARMs [adjustable rate mortgages] now
 account for over 50% of new mortgage originations.
 Over 60% of new mortgage loans in California this year have been interest-only
 loans or option ARMs.

 People are stretching to buy the most house they can with the biggest mortgage payment
 they can afford. But if they can barely cover today's artificially reduced payments, what
 will they do when interest kicks in and/or rates rise? And what if their incomes fall?
 Where's the margin for error? When I was young, the rule of thumb was that no more
 than one-quarter of your paycheck should go for shelter. Today lots of people are paying
 more than half.

 "Everyone knows" it's better to make tax-deductible mortgage payments than to pay rent.
 But the beauty of financial puzzles is that there's no answer that's always correct
 regardless of the circumstances. I'd rather pay a low rent I'll be able to afford even if
 things get a little worse than a high and possibly rising mortgage payment, on the
 continuation of which my home ownership is riding.

 The old goal was to have the house paid off by retirement, so you could live in it when
 your paycheck stopped. Now, thanks to the magic of minimal down payments, minimal
 amortization and adjustable interest rates (starting from historically low levels), payments
 may well be higher in retirement than during the owners' working years. How will
 people - possibly with little or no savings - hold onto their properties when their
 paychecks stop?

 We never hear anymore about people "saving for a rainy day" or "saving for their old
 age." If you do those things, it may be harder to get the house of your dreams . . . but
 you'll never go broke. I wonder how many of today's home buyers will learn this lesson
 through painful experience.

 Selling Money
 U

 If a seller wants to move more of his product, what does he do? Well, that depends on
 whether the product is capable of being differentiated from its competitors. If it is, he can
 try making it better, advertising it more or improving distribution. But if it's not
 differentiable, those things won't work. Can you imagine the success that's likely to
 come from an ad slogan like "Burn our natural gas; it's better"? Goods that can't be
 differentiated from their competitors are called commodities. If a seller of a commodity
 wants to increase market share and thereby sell more of his product, he has only one way
 to go: price it below the competition.

 For the last two years, financial institutions have been able to make money by borrowing
 at short-term rates held down for stimulative purposes and lending at higher, longer-term
 rates. Thus, the institutions have battled to increase market share. But how could they do
 that, given that everyone's money is green (and leaving aside the fact that it makes no
 sense for all participants to expect to increase market share at once)? The answer's the
 same as for any other commodity: price it below the competition. In the case of
 financing, that means offering more of it for a given use, at lower interest rates, with
 looser terms and covenants.

 As The Wall Street Journal of October 7 reported,

 UAL had been shopping for $2.5 billion of financing to fund its exit [from
 bankruptcy] before competition among four financial institutions
 resulted in the larger [$3 billion] loan package on "very competitive"
 terms, the company said. . . . This is a very competitive rate in this

 industry, [J.P. Morgan Vice President James] Lee said, noting that some
 recent airline financings have carried much higher rates. (Emphasis
 added)

 When suppliers of capital are trying to pump out more money at lower rates, usually they
 also apply looser credit standards and offer easier terms. When that's the case, it's time
 to be a taker of capital, not a supplier. Our best investments have been made when
 suppliers of capital were shrinking from the market, refusing to lend or invest at any
 price. That means it's important, as in so many things, to look at the behavior occurring
 around you and ask one simple question: "What kinds of times are these?" The answer
 is usually clear, and thus so are the implications for the future.

 But Does It Make Sense?
 U

 Ultimately, that's all you have to ask. The same October 7 issue of the Journal carried a
 story describing the efforts of mutual fund companies to offer "absolute-return" funds.

 The bear market was "a wake-up call" for investors who previously were
 fixated on trying to earn as much or more as the surging stock market . . .
 Now, while investors may not recognize the terminology of absolute
 versus relative investing, "they just know they don't want to lose money."

 When the stock market was doing well, investors were pursuing high returns. Now, after
 some serious losses, they're pursuing safe, dependable returns. Even the Journal, not
 particularly known for cynicism, points out that, "the recent enthusiasm for absolute-
 return funds will fall by the wayside whenever the stock market takes off and market
 benchmarks rise far more than the gains at hedge-like funds." In other words, investors
 pursue safety when past results have been poor, but they lose interest in safety when
 past results have been good for a while. Not exactly contrarian, but the way it's
 always been. Investors have to learn that last year's return is not an indicator of
 next year's return, and thus of the appropriate strategy.

 And while I'm asking investors for more insight, I see the Journal goes so far as to point
 out that "it's also possible that the absolute-return vehicles won't achieve their stated
 objectives." There's nothing new about investment managers falling short of their goals.
 Further, managing a portfolio of diverse asset classes and both long and short positions to
 produce steady returns regardless of the market environment is a particularly challenging
 task. Few people are able to do it successfully, and someone who can is more apt to work
 at a hedge fund charging "2-plus-20" than a mutual fund charging 1%.

 In other words, I think most investors in these "absolute-return" mutual funds will find a
 few years from now that they didn't get what they wanted - that their returns were
 disappointingly low or disappointingly volatile (or both). It would be great, instead, if
 they could ask today whether it's reasonable to expect consistent returns in the high
 U U

 single digits after significant fees. Otherwise they're likely to end up asking themselves
 - once again - "What was I thinking?"

 * * *

 The philosopher George Santayana is famous for having said, "Those who cannot
 remember the past are condemned to repeat it." (Most apropos of this memo, but less
 famously, he also said, "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and it is shameful to
 surrender it too soon or to the first comer.")

 The value of hindsight lies in the fact that lessons learned in the past by others can
 enable subsequent generations to avoid having to learn them anew. And yet, it
 seems investors must learn those lessons over and over - and often the hard way.
 The exact circumstances may not repeat, and the mistakes may not surround the same
 asset classes, but the general lessons of investing go on having to be learned. To avoid
 this, we have to improve on the brevity of memory that Galbraith complains about; refuse
 to surrender our skepticism; and learn to assess market behavior around us and extract the
 proper inferences for application to our own behavior.

 Readers of my memos know I feel awareness and understanding of cycles is an
 essential tool for investment survival. I always say about cycles, "We may never
 know where we're going, but we'd better have a good idea where we are."
 Hindsight is helpful in this regard, not because the future will be exactly like the
 past, but because by learning the time-honored lessons of the past we can better
 cope with the uncertain future. Recognizing past patterns permits us to increase
 our preparedness, the payoff from which can be considerable.

 Recent trends must not be counted on to continue unabated; that's one of the main
 lessons of the long-term history that matters. A better understanding of that history
 tells us that every day of the recent past - and of current experience - is just another step
 toward the inevitable next cycle. A critical analysis of the future will prove far more
 profitable than will unthinking adherence to the latest trend. But it's the latter that
 always has dominated market movements, and that we have to watch out for.

 So every day when you read the newspaper, watch your Bloomberg or witness investor
 behavior, I encourage you to divine what those things say about what's going on. That's
 one way you can change your investing future for the better.