Memo: Risk.

The reading materials for a meeting of a corporate board on which I sit - and what turned out to
be an eight-hour meeting of the audit committee (thank you, Messrs. Sarbanes and Oxley) -
included an article by Rick Funston, a Principal of Deloitte & Touche LLP and its National
Practice Leader for Governance and Risk Oversight. The subject of the article was corporate
risk, but many of its points were equally applicable to investment risk. It got me thinking.

We're all preoccupied with the quest for excellent investment returns, and most of us understand
that risk management has a lot to do with achieving them. From there, investment orthodoxy
often takes over, with the discussion turning to the relationship between return and volatility.
But I think that tells so little of the story that I've decided to devote an entire memo to the subject
of risk.

 Why Does Risk Matter?

When I joined the investment management industry at the tail end of the 1960s, everyone talked
about returns but few people talked about risk-adjusted returns, or the idea that risk matters. I
was fortunate, however, to have attended the University of Chicago in the preceding years,
during which Capital Market Theory had begun to be discussed.

Of course, nothing underlies the Capital Market approach as much as the relationship between
risk and return. This plays out as follows:

 First, because people are risk averse, riskier investments have to offer higher returns in order
 to attract capital.
 Second, if investors are skillful, they should be able to capture higher returns on their riskier
 investments, and thus they should show higher average returns in the long run.
 But investors' returns tell just half the story. We have to know how much risk they took to
 get those returns before we can judge whether they did a good or a bad job. Thus developed
 the concept of risk-adjusted returns.

It is from the relationship between risk and return that arises the graphic representation that has
become ubiquitous in the investment world. It shows a "capital market line" that slopes upward
to the right, indicating the positive relationship between risk and return that is essential.

 Return

 Risk

Before going further, I want to stop for a brief tirade. In my opinion, especially in good times,
far too many people can be overheard saying, "Riskier investments provide higher returns.
If you want to make more money, the answer is to take more risk." But riskier investments
absolutely cannot be counted on to deliver higher returns. Why not? It's simple: if riskier
investments reliably produced higher returns, they wouldn't be riskier!

The correct formulation is that in order to attract capital, riskier investments have to offer the
prospect of higher returns, or higher promised returns, or higher expected returns. But there's
absolutely nothing to say those higher prospective returns have to materialize.

The way I conceptualize the capital market line makes it easier for me to relate to the
relationship underlying it all:

 Return

 Risk

Riskier investments are those where the outcome is less certain. That is, the probability
distribution of returns is wider. When priced fairly, riskier investments should entail:

 higher expected returns,
 the possibility of lower returns, and
 in some cases the possibility of losses.

The traditional graph shown first above is deceptive, because it communicates the positive
connection between risk and return but fails to suggest the uncertainty involved. It has brought a
lot of people a lot of misery through its unwavering intimation that taking more risk leads to
making more money.

I hope my version of the graph is more helpful. It's meant to suggest both the positive
relationship between risk and expected return and the fact that uncertainty about the return and
the possibility of loss increase as risk increases.

 What Is Risk?

According to the academicians who developed Capital Market Theory, risk equals volatility,
because volatility indicates the unreliability of an investment. I take great issue with this
definition of risk.

It's my view that - knowingly or unknowingly - academicians settled on volatility as the proxy
for risk as a matter of convenience. They needed a number for their calculations that was
objective and could be ascertained historically and extrapolated into the future. Volatility fits the
bill, and most of the other types of risk do not. The problem with all of this, however, is that I
just don't think volatility is the risk most investors care about.

There are many kinds of risk, and I'll discuss some of them below. But volatility may be the
least relevant of them all. Theory says investors demand more return from investments that are
more volatile. But for the market to set the prices for investments such that more volatile
investments will appear likely to produce higher returns, there have to be people
demanding that relationship, and I haven't met them yet. I've never heard anyone at Oaktree
- or anywhere else, for that matter - say, "I won't buy it, because its price might show big
fluctuations," or "I won't buy it, because it might have a down quarter." Thus it's hard for me to
believe volatility is the risk investors factor in when setting prices and prospective returns.

In addition, volatility has a number of shortcomings that aren't often addressed in the literature
but are obvious to investment practitioners:

 A stock that meanders from $50 to $80 is likely to have the same statistical volatility as one
 that goes from $50 to $20. However, most of us would have trouble saying that proves the
 former was as risky as the latter.

 A stock that over a few years goes from $20 to $80 in a straight line will be described as low
 in risk, but if it suddenly declines from $80 to $50 it will be said to have become more risky.
 It's hard to think of a given stock as riskier at $50 than it was shortly before at $80.

 Generally, those who equate volatility with risk look to the historic volatility of an asset as
 the indicator of its future risk. But most of us know the future will not necessarily be like the
 past. And one good way to add value in the investment process is by predicting changes in
 riskiness, whereas no value is ever added through extrapolation.

For all of these reasons, I find it hard to accept volatility as a comprehensive, sufficient or
highly useful measure of risk.

 If Not Volatility, Then What?

Rather than volatility, I think people decline to make investments primarily because they're
worried about a loss of capital or an unacceptably low return. To me, "I need more upside
potential because I'm afraid I could lose money" makes an awful lot more sense than "I need
more upside potential because I'm afraid the price may fluctuate." No, I'm sure "risk" is - first
and foremost - the likelihood of losing money.

There are other kinds of risk, most of which affect each of us differently. That means they're
subjective and personal - rather than intrinsic to the investment itself - and thus they're unlikely
to be behind the market prices set by the consensus of investors. Here are a few:

 Falling short of one's goal - Investors have differing needs, and for each investor the failure
 to meet those needs poses a risk. A retired executive may need 4% per year to pay his bills,
 whereas 6% would represent a windfall. But for a pension fund that has to average 8% per
 year, a prolonged period returning 6% would entail serious risk. Obviously this risk is
 personal and subjective, as opposed to absolute and objective. A given investment may be
 risky in this regard for some people but riskless for others. Thus this cannot be the risk for
 which "the market" demands compensation in the form of higher prospective returns.

 Underperformance - Let's say an investment manager knows she can't get more money from
 a client no matter how well she does, but she's sure she'll lose the account if she fails to keep
 up with some index. That's "benchmark risk," and she can eliminate it by emulating the
 index. But every investor who's unwilling to throw in the towel on outperformance, and who
 chooses to deviate from the index in its pursuit, will have periods of significant
 underperformance. In fact, since many of the best investors stick most strongly to their
 approach - and since no approach will work all the time - the best investors can have some
 of the greatest periods of underperformance. Specifically, in crazy times, disciplined
 investors willingly accept the risk of not taking enough risk to keep up. (See Warren Buffett
 in 1999. That year, underperformance was a badge of courage, because it denoted a refusal
 to participate in the tech bubble.)

 Career risk - This is the extreme form of underperformance risk. Dean LeBaron of
 Batterymarch wrote an article that cited "agency risk," or the risk that arises when the people
 who manage money and the people whose money it is are different people. In those cases,
 the managers may not care much about gains, in which they won't share, but may be deathly
 afraid of losses that could cost them their jobs. The implication is clear: risk that could
 jeopardize return to an agent's firing point is rarely worth taking.

 Unconventionality - Along similar lines, there's the risk of being different. Everyone who
 aspires to superior results has to be mindful of John Maynard Keynes's observation:
 "Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed
 unconventionally . . ." Understandably, stewards of other people's money can be more
 comfortable turning in average performance, regardless of where it stands in absolute terms,
 than with the possibility that unconventional actions will prove unsuccessful and get them
 fired. As David Swenson wrote in his excellent book, "Pioneering Portfolio Management,"

 . . . active management strategies demand uninstitutional behavior from
 institutions, creating a paradox that few can unravel. Establishing and
 maintaining an unconventional investment profile requires acceptance of
 uncomfortably idiosyncratic portfolios, which frequently appear downright
 imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom.

 Concern over this risk keeps many people from superior results, but it also creates
 opportunities in unorthodox investments for those who dare to be different.

 Illiquidity - If an investor needs money with which to pay for surgery in three months or buy
 a home in a year, he may be unable to make an investment that can't be counted on for
 liquidity that meets his schedule. Thus, for him, risk isn't just losing money or volatility, or
 any of the above. It's being unable when needed to turn an investment into cash at a
 reasonable price. This, too, is a personal risk. Theoretically, a fund whose life is perpetual
 and whose liquidity needs are predictable shouldn't be sensitive to this risk and thus should
 be able to bear it for profit.

The bottom line is that investment risk comes in many forms. Many risks matter to some
investors but not to others, and they may make a given investment seem safe for some investors
but risky for others. Rejecting risk as synonymous with volatility, as I do, eliminates the one
measure of risk that's entirely quantifiable, objective and absolute. This, in turn, makes it
hard to argue that the market's an efficient machine that precisely assesses the risk of each
investment and allocates prospective return proportionately.

 Measuring Risk Prospectively

I'm sure we agree that investors should and do demand higher prospective returns on riskier
investments. And hopefully we can agree that losing money is the risk people care about most in
demanding prospective returns, and thus in setting prices for investments. An important question
remains: How do they measure that risk?

 First, it clearly is nothing but a matter of opinion: hopefully an educated, skillful estimate
 about the future, but still just an estimate.

 Second, the standard for quantification is nonexistent. With regard to a given investment,
 some people will think the risk is high and others will think it's low. Some will state it as the
 probability of not making money, and some as the probability of losing a given fraction of
 their money (and so forth). Some will think of it as the risk of losing money over one year,
 and some as the risk of losing money over the entire holding period. Clearly, even if all the
 investors involved met in a room and showed their cards, they'd never agree on a single
 number representing an investment's riskiness. And even if they could, that number
 wouldn't likely be capable of being compared against another number, set by another group
 of investors, for another investment.

 Third, risk is deceptive. Conventional considerations are easy to factor in, like the likelihood
 that normally recurring events will recur. But freakish, once-in-a-lifetime events are
 impossible to quantify or prepare for. The fact that an investment is susceptible to a
 particularly serious risk that will occur infrequently if at all - what I call the "improbable
 disaster" - means it can seem safer than it really is. As Nassim Nicholas Taleb wrote in
 "Fooled by Randomness,"

 Reality is far more vicious than Russian roulette. First, it delivers the fatal bullet
 rather infrequently, like a revolver that would have hundreds, even thousands of
 chambers instead of six. After a few dozen tries, one forgets about the existence
 of a bullet, under a numbing false sense of security. . . . Second, unlike a well-
 defined precise game like Russian roulette, where the risks are visible to anyone
 capable of multiplying and dividing by six, one does not observe the barrel of
 reality. . . . One is thus capable of unwittingly playing Russian roulette - and
 calling it by some alternative "low risk" name.

The bottom line is that, looked at prospectively, much of risk is subjective, hidden and
unquantifiable. But I think one of the most interesting aspects of risk - and one of the least
appreciated - is the fact that it isn't quantifiable even in retrospect .
 U U

 Measuring Risk After the Fact

Let's say someone makes an investment that works out as expected (or better). Does that mean it
wasn't risky? Or let's say the investment produces a loss. Does that mean it was risky? Or that
it should have been perceived as risky at the time it was analyzed and entered into?

If you think about it, the response to these questions is simple: The fact that something
happened doesn't mean it was likely, and the fact that something didn't happen doesn't
mean it was improbable. Improbable things happen all the time, just as likely things often
fail to occur.

Taleb's book is the bible on this subject as far as I'm concerned, and in it he talks about the
"alternative histories" that could have unfolded but didn't. Alexander the Great mapped out his
battle strategy, and it succeeded under the circumstances that unfolded. But were those
circumstances predictable or just a matter of chance? Thus was Alexander wise to count on them
or foolhardy? And did he prudently anticipate and plan for them, or did he overlook them and
just get lucky? Lastly, was there a much wiser general somewhere else, who more
systematically considered the possibilities and whose plan was more likely to work, but who fell
victim to bad fortune (and thus anonymity) when random events conspired against him? Which
man deserves to be in the history books: Alexander the Great or Bob the Unlucky?

What a wonderful way this is to look at things! How many people do you suspect of having
succeeded despite themselves, rather than because of skill? How many bear out the adage "it's
better to be lucky than good"? Certainly many in business have derived fame and fortune from
being right once in a row. Was it skill or luck? Can they do it again? Did they accurately assess
the risk? Who can tell? Who cares?

In the investing world, one can live for years off one great coup or one extreme but eventually
accurate forecast. But what's proved by one success? When markets are booming, the best
results often go to those who take the most risk. Were they smart to anticipate good times and
bulk up on beta, or just congenitally aggressive types who were bailed out by events? Most
simply put, how often in our business are people right for the wrong reason? These are the
people Taleb calls "lucky idiots," and in the short run it's certainly hard to tell them from skilled
investors.

The point is that even after an investment has been closed out, it's impossible to tell how
much risk it entailed. Certainly the fact that an investment worked doesn't mean it wasn't
risky, and vice versa. With regard to a successful investment, where do you look to learn
whether the favorable outcome was inescapable or just one of a hundred possibilities (many of
them unpleasant)? And ditto for a loser: how do we ascertain whether it was a reasonable but ill-
fated venture, or just a wild stab that deserved to be punished?

Did the investor do a good job of assessing the risk entailed? That's another good question that's
hard to answer. Need a model? Think of the weatherman. He says there's a 70% chance of rain
tomorrow. It rains; was he right or wrong? Or it doesn't rain; was he right or wrong? It's
impossible to assess the accuracy of probability estimates other than zero and 100 except over a
very large number of trials.

The celebrated investor is one whose actions yielded good results. Was she lucky or good?
How much risk did she take? Since it's risk-adjusted return that counts, can we tell
whether her return was more than commensurate with the risks borne or less than
commensurate? I'm confident that the answers lie in skilled, subjective judgments, not
highly precise but largely irrelevant ratios of return to volatility.

Casual onlookers rarely see that as a tough question. But like most aspects of investing, the

more obvious the answers seem, the less likely they are to be true.

Many considerations on the subject of risk are actually paradoxical. Investing requires us to deal

with the future, and the difficulty of cracking the future is the source of most of the risk. The
actual riskiness of many aspects of investing depends on the extent to which an investor is
capable of knowing something about the future, or - perhaps better put - of knowing more than
the average investor.

For example, let's consider diversification versus concentration. Is concentration risky? Not

if you know what the future holds. Diversification by definition implies a willingness to trade
off return for safety, motivated by acceptance of the fact that knowledge of the future is
imperfect. Most investors rank their stocks by potential return, formally or informally, but no
one I know buys just the one they expect to deliver the highest return. Why? Because they
know their rankings might be wrong and don't want to bet it all on black and see red come up.
Concentration is risky for investors who can't see the future with much clarity, but it wouldn't be
for one who can. For the latter, it's the way to maximize performance, and diversification can
hold it back.

What about illiquidity? Conventional wisdom says liquid investments are safer than illiquid
ones. And small holdings are safer than large blocks. So what's up with Warren Buffett and
Charlie Munger? They regularly amass stock positions for which there are no other buyers. And
in fact, they seem to be more comfortable owning whole companies than public stocks they
could sell off. Yet their record continues to be highly superior. The answer lies in the fact that
they know what they're doing. They're able to tell good companies from bad ones, and when the
price is right. And given that their portfolios are unlikely to go into forced liquidation (and as far
as I know, they don't think about losing their jobs), illiquidity isn't a risk they worry about.

Finally, what about buying risky assets? People ask me all the time to answer a simple question:

"Are Bruce Karsh's distressed debt funds risky?" They certainly are, in that he buys the debt of
troubled and ultimately insolvent companies; the promises of interest and principal payments on
the debt he buys invariably are out the window; the range of possible outcomes is extremely
wide; his holdings are often illiquid; and he diversifies far less than Sheldon Stone does in his
high yield bond portfolios. On the other hand, Bruce often buys in at extremely low prices; he
has a lot of experience and a highly skilled team; and the record suggests that he, too, knows
what he's doing. Thus one might conclude Bruce's funds aren't risky, and the results to date
support this view: in seventeen years he hasn't had a fund that lost money or a year when the
aggregate return of his funds was negative. (Of course, this historic record says nothing about
future performance.) You can be the judge, but a lot will depend on your definition of risk.

 So my answer's the same here: There's no right answer. No one number can tell you how

much risk an investor took, or how much risk a prospective investment entails. Few investment
assets, strategies or tools are risky or safe in and of themselves. And no answer on this subject is
likely to hold true for every investor and every potential application. That's one of the reasons
why investing is never easy . . . but always interesting.

 Complexity in Risk Assessment

It is my purpose in this section to highlight a few reasons why risk assessment is not simply a
matter of one number (as implied by the attention paid to volatility), but multi-dimensional
instead. Rick Funston of Deloitte pointed out in our board briefing materials that risk assessment
requires us to deal with four complicating factors:

 Scenarios
 Offsets
 Correlations
 Domino effects

By "scenarios," Rick refers to alternative or abnormal future scenarios that go beyond the normal
range of outcomes - in his words, "the possible but unusual."

"Offsets" translate in the investment world into something very familiar: diversification.
Intelligent diversification means not just investing in a bunch of different things, but in things
that respond differently to the same factors. In a well-diversified portfolio, something that
negatively influences investment A might have a positive and offsetting influence on investment
B.

"Correlations" are somewhat the opposite. The term refers to the chance that a number of
investments will respond in the same way to a given factor. Be alert, however, to the fact that
when things in the environment turn really negative, seemingly unconnected investments can be
similarly affected. "In times of panic," they say, "all correlations go to one."

Finally, "domino effects" refer to the likelihood that a given factor will cause trouble for
investment A, which will be a problem for investment B, which will hurt investment C, and so
on. Obviously, domino effects can result in combinations that are bigger than any one issue
alone and quite hard to anticipate.

Clearly, because of these factors among so many others, risk can't be reduced to a single number
or handled simplistically. Because of its multi-dimensional nature, it can only be dealt with by
skilled and experienced individuals making judgments that are by their nature subjective. And
even those individuals must always be conscious of how much they don't know.

When the emerging markets melted down in 1998, accompanied by the collapse of Long Term
Capital Management and the crisis in Russia, most investors thought their risk was limited to
their holdings of emerging market securities. But they soon saw firsthand the ability to be
affected through the stocks of U.S. companies doing business in emerging markets, high yield
bond funds that had dabbled in sovereign debt, and private equity investments exposed to the
economies in question.

Fault lines run through every portfolio, adding to the complexity of managing risk. It's
hard to anticipate all of them, but trying to do so lies at the heart of effective risk management.

 Bring in the Risk Management Professionals

Given the myriad reservations about risk measurement expressed above, I want to inveigh
against over-reliance on using outside "experts" to assess the risk the investment people are
taking, and on models like VAR (value at risk) to do the assessing.

First of all, given the inextricable linkage between analyzing a potential investment and assessing
its risks, I question whether anyone else can know as much about this subject as the investment
professionals directly involved. To me, "risk measurement officers" sound like armchair
quarterbacks who're brought in to tell the investment pros how they're doing (although I concede
that they may be useful in looking across the "silos" in multi-strategy portfolios to aggregate risk
and look for fault lines).

Second, I sincerely doubt that the risks that really matter are subject to modeling. Models can
tell us what will happen most of the time, and how much risk will be entailed under "normal
circumstances." But, as my friend Ric Kayne says, everyone understands the things that happen
within two standard deviations, but everything important in financial history takes place outside
of two standard deviations.

Rick Funston performs a service by organizing risks into two categories: those that are suitable
for probabilistic modeling and those that aren't. He includes among the elements that render a
risk suitable for modeling (1) recurring situations, (2) processes that are subject to known rules,
(3) conditions that can be counted on to remain stable, (4) controllable environments, (5) a
limited range of outcomes, and (6) certainty that combinations of things will lead to known
results. What could be less descriptive of investing?
 U U

Given the non-recurring situations we face, the fact that many of the rules are unknown,
and the largely unlimited range of outcomes (among other things), I would argue strongly
that models and modelers are of very limited utility in measuring investment risk at the
extremes, where it really matters.

 Bearing Risk for Profit

A few years ago, one of my memos quoted Lord Keynes as having said, ". . . a speculator is one
who runs risks of which he is aware and an investor is one who runs risks of which he is
unaware." (I admitted at the time that I'd been unable to verify that he actually said it, but now
I've identified the source.) Keynes makes an essential point. Bearing risk unknowingly can be
a huge mistake, but it's what those who buy the securities that are all the rage and most highly
esteemed at a particular point in time - to which "nothing bad can possibly happen" - repeatedly
do. On the other hand, the intelligent acceptance of recognized risk for profit underlies
some of the wisest, most profitable investments - even though (or perhaps due to the fact that)
most investors dismiss them as dangerous speculations.

I believe in the principles underlying the Capital Market approach. We are (or should be) risk
averse, meaning that, if the prospective returns are equal, we prefer safer investments to the more

risky. Thus, we must be induced to make riskier investments by the offer of higher prospective
returns. We could accept the risk-free rate available on Treasury bills, but most of us choose
instead to strive for more by taking on incremental risk. When you boil it all down, it's the
investor's job to intelligently bear risk for profit. Doing it well is what separates the pros
from the rest.

What does it mean to intelligently bear risk for profit? I'll provide an example. In the early
1980s, a reporter asked me, "How can you invest in high yield bonds when you know some of
the issuers will go bankrupt?" Somehow, the perfect answer came to me in a flash: "The most
conservative companies in America are the life insurance companies. How can they insure
people's lives when they know they're all going to die?" Both activities involve conscious risk
 U U

bearing. Both can be done intelligently (or not). The ability to profit from them consistently
depends on the approach employed and whether it's done skillfully. For companies selling life
insurance, I said, the keys to survival and profitability are the following:

 It's risk they're aware of. They know everyone's going to die. Thus they factor this reality
 into their approach.
 It's risk they can analyze. That's why they have doctors assess applicants' health.
 It's risk they can diversify. By ensuring a mix of policyholders by age, gender, occupation
 and location, they make sure they're not exposed to freak occurrences and widespread losses.
 And it's risk they can be sure they're well paid to bear. They set premiums so they'll
 make a profit if the policyholders die according to the actuarial tables on average. And if the
 insurance market is inefficient - for example, if the company can sell a policy to someone
 likely to die at age 80 at a premium that assumes he'll die at 70 - they'll be better protected
 against risk and positioned for exceptional profits if things go as expected.

We do exactly the same things in high yield bonds, and in the rest of Oaktree's strategies. We
try to be aware of the risks, which is essential given how much our work involves assets that
some simplistically call "risky." We employ highly skilled professionals capable of analyzing
investments and assessing risk. We diversify our portfolios appropriately. And we invest only
when we're convinced the likely return far more than compensates for the risk.

We've said for years that risky assets can make for good investments if they're cheap
enough. The essential element is knowing when that's the case. That's it: the intelligent
bearing of risk for profit, the best test for which is a record of repeated success over a long
period of time.

 Risk Management vs. Risk Avoidance

Clearly, Oaktree doesn't run from risk. We welcome it at the right time, in the right instances,
and at the right price. We could easily avoid all risk, and so could you. But we'd be assured of
avoiding returns above the risk-free rate as well. Will Rogers said, " You've got to go out on a
 T

limb sometimes because that's where the fruit is." None of us is in this business to make 4%.

So even though the first tenet in Oaktree's investment philosophy stresses "the importance
T

of risk control," this has nothing to do with risk avoidance.

It's by bearing risk when we're well paid to do so - and especially by taking risks toward which
T

others are averse in the extreme - that we strive to add value for our clients. When formulated
that way, it's obvious how big a part risk plays in our process.

Rick Funston said in the article that prompted this memo, ". . . you need comfort that the . . .
risks and exposures are understood, appropriately managed, and made more transparent
for everyone . . . This is not risk aversion; it is risk intelligence." That's what Oaktree
strives for every day.


Memo: It Is What It Is.

My first exposure to the phrase that serves as the title for this memo came in 1995, a few days
 before Oaktree opened its doors. My partners and I wracked our brains over whether we'd
 covered every base. We asked our attorney, Peter Ostroff of Sidley & Austin, if he thought we'd
 missed anything. Peter's answer was succinct and on target as usual: "It is what it is."

 In the March 5 edition of The New York Times, William Safire devoted the Sunday Magazine's
 "On Language" column to "it is what it is." He mentioned that the first use he could find had
 been in 1949, and that the phrase had been adopted for movie and song titles in the last few
 years. I was shocked when I checked Google and found 4.2 million references!

 According to Safire, there is no one definitive meaning for the phrase. It can serve as the
 equivalent of the politician's "no comment." It can be used to express "philosophical resignation
 over a disappointment." Or it can be "a mild put-down, as if to say, 'That's all you can expect.'"
 Safire concluded his column with another possible meaning: "que sera sera" (what will be will
 be), which was the title of a hit song by Doris Day when I was ten. But that interpretation
 suggests a fatalism and inability to affect the outcome that I don't associate with the phrase.

 I took Peter's use of the phrase in 1995 - and I'm using it in this memo - to mean something
 very different: recognition and acceptance of today's givens . . . but not necessarily of the end
 result. What's past is past and can't be undone. It has led to the circumstances we now face. All
 we can do is recognize our circumstances for what they are and make the best decisions we
 can "given the givens."

 Roots in Philosophy
 U

 In the mid-'60s, Wharton students had to have a non-business minor, and I satisfied the
 requirement by taking five courses in Japanese studies. These surprised me by becoming the
 highlight of my college career and contributing to my investment philosophy in a major way.

 Among the values prized in early Japanese culture was mujo. Mujo was defined classically for
 me as recognition of "the turning of the wheel of the law," implying acceptance of the
 inevitability of change, of rise and fall.

 This sense of accepting and "going with" the environment and the changes that take place there -
 rather than insisting that it stay the same and attempting to impose our will on it - was captured
 for me in a quotation from Lao-Tzu (I found it in the March letter from Rimrock Capital, which
 Paul Westhead left Oaktree in 2004 to head):

 To be strong you have to be like water: if there are no obstacles, it flows; if there
 is an obstacle, it stops; if a dam is broken, then it flows further; if a vessel is
 square, then it has a square form; if a vessel is round, then it has a round form;
 because it is so soft and flexible, it is the most necessary and the strongest thing.

 In other words, mujo means cycles will rise and fall, things will come and go, and our
 environment will change in ways beyond our control. Thus we must recognize, accept, cope
 and respond. Isn't that the essence of investing?

 Coping With Cycles
 U

 In the world of investing, (as you've heard me say many times) nothing is as dependable as
 cycles. Fundamentals, psychology, prices and returns will rise and fall, presenting opportunities
 to make mistakes or to profit from the mistakes of others. They are the givens.

 We cannot know how far a trend will go, when it will turn, what will make it turn, or how
 far things will then go in the opposite direction. But I'm confident that every trend will stop
 sooner or later. Nothing goes on forever. Trees don't grow to the sky, and neither do many
 things go to zero and stay there. Success carries within itself the seeds of failure, and failure the
 seeds of success.

 So what can we do about cycles? If we can't know in advance how and when the turns will
 occur, how can we cope? On this, I am dogmatic: We may never know where we're going,
 but we'd better have a good idea where we are. That is, even if we can't predict the timing
 and extent of cyclical fluctuations, it's essential that we strive to ascertain where we stand in
 cyclical terms and act accordingly.

 U What Can We Know, and How?

 Even without knowing where we're going and when, we can deduce lots of valuable information
 about our investment environment.

 First, where do we stand in the economic cycle? Is the economy several years into a recovery
 that may be due for a rest? Has it leveled out and begun to weaken? Or has it been weak enough
 long enough that we can reasonably expect recession to give way to recovery?

 Second, how have the markets been performing? Have they been weak for years, possibly
 pushing prices to bargain basement levels? Or have they been so strong that we should suspect
 (1) the positives have been fully discounted, (2) several years of potential gains have been
 accelerated into the returns to date, and (3) assets today are "priced for perfection"?

 Finally, and often most important, how are people around us behaving? If they're chastened
 by losses and afraid of the future, there's reason for us to be optimistic. If they're unworried and
 complacent, that's something we should worry about. In the words of my favorite Buffettism,

 "The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which
 we should conduct our own affairs."

 Imagine we ran into a visitor from Mars who observed, "I see your economy and markets have
 been doing well for years. Everyone's making a ton of money. No one's expressing worry or a
 desire to avoid risk. P/E ratios, buyout prices and private equity leverage ratios are all high.
 Stock buybacks and dividend recaps are adding to leverage and reducing creditworthiness.
 Conferences on hedge funds and private equity are sold out. Top-performing funds are closed to
 newcomers and new ones start up every day, fully subscribed. The Greenwich Ferrari dealer has
 a waiting list a year long."

 Nothing in our favorite Martian's statements sounds like a prediction. In fact, he hasn't said
 one word about the future. But there's a lot of helpful information there. My guess is valuable
 inferences could be made about what's likely to happen next. If he can see it, so should we.
 And having seen it, we should take appropriately cautious action.

 And the reverse can also be true (although it's not something I dwell on most of the time or at
 what I think is today's point in the cycle). If that Martian came down and saw nothing but weak
 recent returns, widespread disillusionment, disinterest in investing and people waiting for the
 smoke to clear before they'll commit, we'd probably conclude it's time for us to step on the gas.

 What to Do

 There are few fields in which decisions as to strategies and tactics aren't influenced by what we
 see in the environment. Our pressure on the gas pedal varies depending on whether the road is
 empty or crowded. The golfer's choice of club depends on the wind. Our decision regarding
 outerwear certainly varies with the weather. Shouldn't our investment actions be equally
 affected by the investing climate?

 Most people strive to adjust their portfolios based on what they think lies ahead. At the
 same time, however, most people would admit forward visibility just isn't that great.
 That's why I make the case for responding to the current realities and their implications, as
 opposed to expecting the future to be made clear.

 In November 2004 I wrote a memo entitled "Risk and Return Today." Its thesis was that in most
 asset classes, prospective returns were low and risk premiums were skinny. On that basis, I
 urged investors to act accordingly, hold reasonable expectations and - especially - decline to
 stretch for higher returns by taking on more risk. The conclusions are just as clear today:

 When high returns are not in prospect, we shouldn't invest as if they are.
 When safe investments appear unlikely to provide the returns we need, we shouldn't rush to
 riskier investments to get them.
 This is especially true when the reward for taking incremental risk is skimpy.

 It's as simple as that. We can't expect high returns when the market doesn't offer them.
 Prices won't fall to levels from which high returns can be expected if most investors are

 willing to settle for less. To quote Peter Bernstein, "The market's not a very accommodating
 machine; it won't provide high returns just because you need them."

 My bottom line, as they might say in the self-help books: Listen to your inner Martian.
 What's going on usually isn't that big a mystery. An overheated environment doesn't mean the
 market's going down tomorrow, just as an excess of risk aversion doesn't signal it's the absolute
 bottom. But the circumstances should inform our behavior. Simply observing what's going on
 around you and acting accordingly should improve your investment results.

 And the distinctions needn't be cut too fine. There can be lots of room for argument between
 "undervalued" and "fairly valued," or between "fairly valued" and "overvalued" - that's where
 most of the uncertainty lies. But it's unlikely that disciplined investors will find it hard to choose
 between overvalued and undervalued. In my opinion, if you're wracking your brain trying to
 figure out whether something's overvalued or fairly valued - that is, whether you should sell or
 continue to hold - it's usually pretty clear that it's not a buy.

 What Is Going On Around Us Today?

 No one I know thinks investors today are acting out of an excess of caution, and I agree.
 Investors have forgotten the losses in stocks, corporate bonds and venture capital earlier this
 decade and consider this a low-risk world (or at least one where risk is clearly worth taking).
 Mark Cutis of Shinsei Bank sent me his memo entitled, "Market of no fear!" I think that's an apt
 description.

 There's no reason to think today's environment implies high future returns. Whether it's
 high P/E ratios, high transaction multiples in buyouts, low bond yields or low capitalization
 rates on real estate (and certainly all of these are interrelated), few markets appear to offer
 bargains.

 People are reporting big gains from private equity and real estate assets they bought cheap in the
 past, levered up in accommodating capital markets and sold at very high prices (read: low
 prospective returns). But fewer people can claim to be buying in on the cheap today.

 A great deal of what's happening is related to a glut of capital for investment in non-mainstream
 asset classes. With no one interested in buying more high grade bonds at yields near 5% or U.S.
 stocks with consensus expected returns of 5-7% or so, capital is bypassing those big markets - or
 perhaps exiting them - and flocking to the smaller alternative markets, raising prices. I
 understand why people who need 8% or more are looking there for help, but that doesn't do
 much for the likelihood they'll get what they're after. (More on this later.)

 The skinniness of today's risk premiums can be observed most clearly in the high yield bond
 market, where prospective returns can be calculated with precision and yield spreads are in the
 vicinity of historic lows, and in certain real estate markets, where actual cash returns are
 similarly low. But the difficulty of quantifying prospective returns in public and private equity
 doesn't mean the offerings there are any less paltry. And, as Alan Greenspan said, ". . . history
 has not dealt kindly with the aftermath of protracted periods of low risk premiums."

 This is a time for caution, not aggressiveness. For reaping more than sowing. I said it 16 and 34
 months ago, and returns in many US markets have been paltry since. Some alternative
 investment returns have been quite good, but high realized returns must never be confused
 with great opportunities to invest more. High past returns don't imply high future returns;
 more likely, they've borrowed from the future.

 The Poor Man's Guide to Market Assessment

 Here's a simple exercise: I have listed below a number of market characteristics. For each pair,
 check off the one you think is most descriptive of today. And if you find that most of your
 checkmarks are in the left-hand column, as I do, hold on to your wallet.

 Economy: Vibrant Sluggish
 Outlook: Positive Negative
 Lenders: Eager Reticent
 Capital markets: Loose Tight
 Capital: Plentiful Scarce
 Terms: Easy Restrictive
 Interest Rates: Low High
 Spreads: Narrow Wide

 Investors: Optimistic Pessimistic
 Sanguine Distressed
 Eager to buy Uninterested in buying
 Asset owners: Happy to hold Rushing for the exits
 Sellers: Few Many
 Markets: Crowded Starved for attention
 Funds: Hard to gain entry Open to anyone
 New ones daily Only the best can raise money
 GPs hold the cards on terms LPs have bargaining power

 Recent performance: Strong Weak
 Asset prices: High Low
 Prospective returns: Low High
 Risk: High Low

 Popular qualities: Aggressiveness Caution and discipline
 Broad reach Selectivity
 The right qualities: Caution and discipline Aggressiveness
 Selectivity Broad reach
 Available mistakes: Buying too much Buying too little
 Paying up Walking away
 Taking too much risk Taking too little risk

 An Inefficient Market in Investment Advice

 Bruce Karsh and I recently had an opportunity to sit down to lunch with Charlie Munger. As
 usual, our conversation was most enjoyable, straying over a large number of topics. I think a few
 of them - plus some comments from Warren Buffett's latest annual report - can be woven into
 something of relevance to this memo and of interest to you.

 Bruce started off by observing that with practically everyone able to start up a billion dollar
 hedge fund, and with the leading private equity managers able to raise funds of $10 to $15
 billion, jobs in those fields are in great demand as the way to get rich quick. It occurred to me
 that if large numbers of people are convinced that a given field is sure to give them instant
 wealth, something must be wrong. That's a "bubble expectation." Getting rich - if it can be
 accomplished at all - is supposed to come from some combination of proven skill, hard work,
 risk bearing and luck. No one should be able to count on it, and especially not in the short run.
 And given the operation of market forces, such an opportunity shouldn't last long.

 Then I remembered that for decades I've argued that exceptional risk-adjusted returns can only
 be achieved in inefficient markets, and even then not all the time or by everyone. And by
 "inefficient markets," I've always meant markets where mistakes are being made. So if large
 numbers of alternative investment managers and would-be managers are planning on
 getting rich quick, the investment management market must be inefficient: they and/or
 someone else must be making a mistake. Who else could it be? Maybe it's their clients.

 Today, as everyone knows, funds can be raised easily and at sizes no one imagined just three
 years ago. But assets are no longer as cheap as they used to be, interest rates are no longer as
 low, and the economic recovery isn't as young. I recently heard a speech in which a top buyout
 manager said his fund's goal (per my memory) is to buy companies at fair prices and make them
 worth more. In the past, he might've said they tried to buy companies cheap.

 On the plus side of the ledger for private equity, managers think more like owners than do many
 public company boards; are substantially incentivized to see the funds' assets appreciate; and
 have the potential to improve their previously undermanaged companies. On the negative side,
 however, the three of us noted that clients are currently entrusting record amounts of money to
 these managers, along with management fees big enough to allow the managers to get rich
 without making successful investments, as well as a share in transaction fees that have the
 potential to put the interests of fund managers and their clients in conflict.

 I believe the investors in these funds feel they'll be happy if they can earn net returns in the very
 low double digits. The modest nature of their aspirations stems from the juxtaposition of (a) the
 perceived inadequacy (mentioned earlier) of the prospective returns on mainstream stocks and
 bonds, (b) the large sums some institutions have to invest, and (c) the 8%-or-better returns that
 pension funds and endowments must achieve if they are to continue business as usual. This
 combination makes it imperative that they commit to alternative investments and hedge funds,
 and thus tilts the balance of bargaining power over fees to the fund managers. This, in turn,
 decreases the likelihood that terms will be designed to maximize the clients' interests. It also can
 give the managers amounts of capital that pose a problem.

 In his letter discussing Berkshire Hathaway's 2005 performance, Warren Buffett tells the
 priceless story of the Gotrocks family, which owns all the corporations in America and earns all
 the profits. Over time, individual family members are approached by broker-Helpers, manager-
 Helpers and consultant-Helpers, who promise to help them make money (for a fee) by buying
 certain pieces of the empire from their relatives and selling them others. Eventually they also
 hook up with hyper-Helpers, wearing uniforms saying "Private Equity" and "Hedge Fund," who
 levy success fees on top of their other charges. It's clear that the collective efforts of all the
 Helpers in shuffling assets among Gotrocks family members are unlikely to increase the family's
 overall wealth (just as is true when companies are sold from one private equity fund to another).
 At the same time, whether they're successful or not, the costs involved in trying will cause a
 substantial transfer of wealth from the Gotrocks to their "Helpers." But that's the way it is.

 In April 1998 I observed in "Views on Alternative Investments" that some good performing
 managers might choose to "appropriate for themselves a bigger portion of their funds' superior
 returns." This is natural and happens in all businesses where the product is in strong demand.
 But that doesn't mean buyers should ignore it when it occurs.

 I'm not saying alternative investments and hedge funds won't provide the returns clients need, or
 that people shouldn't invest in them. But realistically assessing the demand for these funds, the
 amounts of money going into them, the market conditions for the underlying asset classes and
 the deals the managers are able to cut for themselves might cause would-be investors to conclude
 the silver bullet still hasn't been invented. Participate in alternative investments if you want -
 in fact, Oaktree hopes you'll keep doing so - but do it with your eyes open.

 Charlie ended the lunch by urging us to create reasonable expectations among our clients and
 treat them well. We promised to try.

 * * *

 None of us can individually influence economic or market conditions. Neither, I think, can we
 accurately see what lies ahead. But it's possible to derive inferences from the recent past and
 the present that improve our judgments and actions regarding the future. It's simply
 essential that we be aware of what's going on around us. After all, who can argue with the
 statement "it is what it is"?

 Facing up to reality is what Warren Buffett's doing when he says "We used to find it easy to buy
 dollars for fifty cents. Today we're trying hard to find dollars we can buy for eighty cents." (He
 also told me he has an 800 number for anyone who knows where 80-cent dollars can be found.)
 Recognizing and accepting these things when they're true isn't pleasant, but there is no
 prudent alternative.

 Oaktree tries hard to take note of prevailing market conditions, communicate what's going on
 and behave as contrarians. We try to raise bigger funds and buy more aggressively when we
 think others are leaving bargains on the table and do the opposite when they're not. It doesn't
 always work, but it usually beats the alternative.


Memo: Returns, Absolute Returns and Risk.

U What's In a Name?

My memos often touch on the subject of investors' foibles, one of the worst of which consists of
their tendency to pay too much attention to labels (and too little to substance).

 Enthusiasm for "growth stock investing" carried investors to the ridiculous conclusion that
 for the stocks of the fastest-growing companies, no price is too high. That was just before
 the "nifty-fifty" stocks of America's best companies lost up to 90% of their value in 1973-74.

 "Portfolio insurance" assured investors they could participate fully in stock market gains with
 protection against declines if they would simply commit to automatically enter sell orders
 pursuant to an algorithm. But in the crash of October 1987, investors found themselves
 unable to make those sales, and the ineffectiveness of the "insurance" (combined with the
 outsized positions it had encouraged) cost them dearly. And at any rate, portfolio insurance,
 like any mechanical risk-limiting device, should have been expected to limit long-term return
 as well as risk. After all, there rarely is a free lunch.

 "Market neutral" funds were supposed to be insensitive to market fluctuations, but the so-
 described Granite Fund of mortgage-backed securities melted down in just a few weeks when
 it turned out not to be insulated from the rapid rise of interest rates in 1994.

 "High yield bonds" drew people in, just as "junk bonds" had scared them away. One of my
 favorites was the mutual fund investor who said in 1990, "I thought it was a high yield bond
 fund; I never would have invested if I'd known it was a junk bond fund."

 "Gonna change the world" is what people believed about e-commerce and the Internet. A
 few of the companies did, as had pioneers in radio and airlines. However, "change the
 world" proved once again to be far from synonymous with "make money for investors."

 Today, of course, almost everyone wants to invest in "hedge funds" . . . even though almost
 nobody can define them. In 2005, the average returns for the best and worst performing
 hedge fund categories were 17.4% and -2.6%. Clearly, then, the term "hedge fund" cannot
 be much help in the selection of investment vehicles. Economist Brad Setser was quoted in
 The Wall Street Journal of May 31 as posing and answering his own question: "I thought
 hedge funds were supposed to be hedged. I fully realize . . . that in many ways the name
 'hedge fund' doesn't tell you much about what a fund does."

The bottom line is that, in the world of investing, words mean almost nothing. All that matters is
what you're buying, the price you're paying for it, and the risk that it will fail to deliver all you
expect. No weight should be attached to what something's called, as labels alone have little
significance with regard to risk and return.

Asset Class Returns
U

Importantly in this connection, I continue to insist that no asset class and no investment
technique possesses a natural or embedded rate of return. Fixed income comes closest, with
its promise of interest and the repayment of principal. But for the holder of a 20-year bond, most
of the total return over its lifetime will come from "interest on interest" - the interest that is
earned on interest payments that have been received - and this will vary with rates. Thus, even
in fixed income instruments (other than zero-coupon bonds), the return is far from intrinsic.

And from there, the connection between an asset class label and a prospective rate of return
grows more and more tenuous. What's the return on S&P 500 stocks? If you had asked 100
institutional investors and consultants in 1999, virtually all of them would have said 9-11%. Ask
them today and they're likely to say 5-7%. What changed? Not the asset class itself, but
opinions surrounding it. Obviously, meanings ascribed to words alone often fail to hold up.

For a final example, what about the asset-class return on private equity? This strikes me as an
even more unreliable concept. The return on a private equity investment will come from the
combination of (a) the potential of the underlying company and (b) the ability of the manager to
identify the opportunity, buy the company at a good price, make it a better company, and sell it
at higher valuation parameters than it was bought for. Certainly all of the elements included in
"b" are highly dependent on the manager's skill and have little or nothing to do with the fact that
the investment belongs to a given asset class.

Absolute-Return Investing
U

My memos are often sparked by something I stumble on, and this one is no exception. The
prompt came from "The Myth of the Absolute-Return Investor" by M. Barton Waring and
Laurence B. Siegel (Financial Analysts Journal, March/April 2006).

Many people talk today about absolute-return investing and say they want to put money with
absolute-return funds and managers. But as Waring and Siegel indicate, there's no broad
agreement on what that means. They start their article by citing a few popular definitions for
absolute-return investments, which seem to be distillable to investments possessing the
potential for positive returns regardless of general market conditions.

In my opinion, if you're interested in absolute return investing, you should be looking for a
steady outcome rather than responsiveness to market conditions. In this context, I tend to think
of "absolute" along the lines suggested by one of the many definitions in Webster's Dictionary:
"free of external references or relationships."

When one of the investment committees I'm on decided to increase the portfolio's commitment
to "absolute-return hedge funds" several years ago, the general consensus was that we wanted
funds that would reliably deliver 9-10% or so. We wouldn't expect to do much worse regardless
of how badly the markets performed, and we wouldn't be surprised if we failed to do much better
when the markets rose. In other words: a steady, healthy return (implying good relative
performance in bad times), but consequently with the likelihood of lagging the markets
when they do well. Raise your hand if you agree.

But problems arise. Most hedge funds do better in good years than bad, implying that they're
not really insensitive to market developments. Most hedge fund managers would acknowledge
that their returns are derived from a combination of beta and alpha (that is, from market return
plus the skill they bring to the investment process). And as long as beta plays a meaningful part,
an investment's return can't really be described as "absolute."

Waring and Siegel argue that there's no such thing as absolute investing, in that the alpha it aims
to capture arises from relative decisions that are the basis for all active management. By this
they mean that active management consists of trying to overweight (in relative terms) the things
in a benchmark or market that will do better and underweight the things that will do worse, and
by having more exposure to the benchmark or market in good times and less in bad times.
These, they argue, are relative investing decisions.

 No wonder we could not sensibly define absolute-return investing: There is no
 such thing. The term is intended to capture investor attention by offering an
 intuitively appealing alternative to the disciplines required by relative-return
 investing, but at the end of the day it delivers beta returns plus or minus relative
 (alpha) returns . . . It may appear to be a distinct type of investing, but if there is
 a distinction, it is a distinction without a difference.

I think Waring and Siegel go too far, and some of this feels like wordplay. You can call trying to
buy the good and avoid the bad "relative investing," because the decisions are made relative to
the makeup of a market or benchmark. And it's true, as Sid Cottle (of Graham, Dodd and Cottle)
put it to me thirty years ago, that "investment is the discipline of relative selection." But
"relative" is just a word. The quest for better portfolios doesn't necessarily make all active
investors "relative investors" in the index-centric sense of the term.

Waring and Siegel insist "the notion that every return has a beta component and an alpha
component applies to any portfolio." And as they describe Bill Sharpe as saying, "The return on
any, repeat any, portfolio consists of a market part and a nonmarket part." However, there are
investors and funds whose goal it is to buy the good and avoid the bad and, at the same time , to
 U U

minimize the effect of general market fluctuations on their returns. They want to bring that beta
term as close as possible to zero, and some are able to pull it off - more or less.

So I think "absolute return" is a relative term, not - pardon me - an absolute one. But it's still
potentially useful. To me absolute-return investing means - perhaps stating the same thing
a few different ways - that (a) the contribution to return from alpha should be visibly more
pronounced than from beta, (b) the return should be significantly steadier than that of the

market, and (c) there should be a relatively low correlation between the fund's return and
the relevant market returns. We just shouldn't expect the correlation to be zero.

Hedge Fund = Absolute Return = Market Neutral?
U

Are hedge funds absolute return vehicles? According to the article that inspired this memo,
"Today, the term 'absolute return' seems to be used most often to describe what wealthy
individual investors have always called hedge funds." I do hear a lot of people use the terms
somewhat interchangeably. For that reason, I'd like to spend a few paragraphs exploring just
how "absolute" hedge fund returns really are, with data from Credit Suisse/Tremont.

Here are the average returns on three hedge fund categories:

 Credit Suisse/Tremont Hedge Fund Index
 U

 Overall Equity Long/Short
 (total return in %) Average
 U Mkt Neutral
 U Equity
 U

Certainly these funds satisfied the 9-10% goal expressed above for absolute returns . . . or did
they? A couple of years ago, I had some fun asking how often the annual return on the S&P 500
had fallen within what was then thought to be the "normal" 8-12% range. Now let's do the same
for hedge funds: in how many of the last twelve years was the average return on these three
hedge fund indices between 8% and 12%? The answer for each index: just once or twice.

Take the "market neutral" sector. Its average return, at 9.9%, was square in the desired range,
and its annual returns were the least variable of the three hedge fund sectors, as one would
expect. But was it really market neutral? In the period 1995-2000, the average market neutral
fund returned 14.3%, with yearly returns ranging from 11.0% to 15.3%. In the slower period
2001-05, the average fund returned 7.3%, with yearly returns ranging between 6.1% and 9.3%.
The annual returns within each sub-period were quite steady despite the market's fluctuations
(and never negative, which was quite an accomplishment). But certainly the average varied
greatly from period to period, and it fell between 8% and 12% only twice in those twelve years.
Even the relationship that these funds' returns are supposed to bear to Treasury bill returns (e.g.,
"T-plus-500") seems to have been achieved on average but not with consistency. Bottom line:
the returns on "market neutral" hedge funds are not immune to external developments.

Moving from market neutral funds to equity long-short funds and hedge funds in general, the
table below shows returns for two pairs of back-to-back years in which the stock market boomed
and busted.

 Up-and-down
 U Down-and-up
 U

Investors were glad to be in these funds rather than the S&P 500, as the returns were much
steadier for the hedge funds than for the market and higher overall. But does the fact that losses
were minimized or avoided in the down years mean that hedge funds provide absolute returns?
That depends on your criteria for "absolute." If "insensitive to market movements" or "free of
external references or relationships" are among them, they do not meet the standard.

According to The New Yorker of May 22, 2006, "A recent paper by the economists Burton
Malkiel and Atanu Saha . . . showed that the range of performance among hedge-fund managers
was much wider than among mutual-fund managers . . ." And Dow Jones estimates that the
average equity long/short hedge fund lost 5% last month. So not consistent from fund to fund,
and not consistent over time. Finally, research has shown that significant beta exposure is
embedded in many hedge funds. In the spring 2004 Canadian Investment Review, Dominic
Clermont of TD Asset Management reported the following findings:

 Over the 1994-2000 period, the aggregate hedge fund index had a market
 exposure (beta) of 0.37. Thus, on average, a significant portion of hedge fund
 managers' returns came from market exposure. Some hedge fund strategies, such
 as emerging market hedge funds, had a much higher beta of 0.74.

These observations certainly call into question the absoluteness of hedge fund performance.

U What Do Investors Want?

That's a trick question, because the answer is usually heavily reliant on investors' recent
experience. When market performance has been good, they want participation going forward.
But when performance has been bad, they demand protection.

An endowment portfolio that delivered 15% per year in the late 1990s was described as
disappointing, because many others made 20%-plus. But a portfolio that made 2% in the first
few years of this decade was lauded, because most lost money. So people can feel good about
2% and bad about 15%. That's human nature for you (and it shows why things other than
absolute return matter . . . and perhaps why "common sense" is such an oxymoron).

It also shows how danger creeps into markets. When everything's been going swimmingly,
investors forget about risk and want a full ride on the bandwagon. Seldom do they express
concern about the fact that good past performance implies elevated asset prices, and maybe low
returns and high risk going forward. By the same token, on the heels of market losses, investors

tend to pull in their horns and opt for safety - even though the best buying opportunities usually
grow out of market dislocations. In this regard, short-term hindsight is worse than no help - it's
a hindrance. And it's what makes contrarian investing effective.

Investors don't want the same thing at all times, fluctuating in their appetites as they do.
This tells me they won't always be satisfied with so-called absolute returns, even if they can
be achieved.

Maybe they just want it all. In an old commercial, the multi-talented Deion Sanders was asked
"Which would you rather play, baseball or football?" and he'd say "Both." "Offense or
defense?" "Both." When I ask would-be investors whether they want upside potential or
downside protection, they often answer "Both" . . . only half kidding, I think.

U What Should Investors Want?

Of course, I think investors should pursue superior risk-adjusted performance. The goal of
many investors - higher highs and higher lows - just isn't practical. If you emphasize offense,
you're likely to see higher highs and lower lows. And if you choose defense, you should get
higher lows but also lower highs. It takes a lot of skill to produce anything else.

The quest for what I think most people mean by absolute investing - decent highs and lows that
aren't low - is not unreasonable. But I still think (a) delivering that kind of performance requires
a lot of skill, (b) most investors can't do it, and (c) the ones who can won't be found by picking
funds according to their labels, but as a result of a thorough and difficult study of managers and
their abilities.

At Oaktree, we constantly tell people the following:

 In good times, it's good enough to be average. At first glance, that seems like a heretical
 and far-too-modest goal. But during good times, the average investor makes a lot of money;
 why shouldn't "average" be good enough?
 While above average returns are always nice, why would anyone put an emphasis on beating
 the market when the market does well? What makes it worth taking the higher risk - and
 holding the idiosyncratic portfolio - that's required for outperformance in a rising market?
 On the contrary, in a rising market, mere participation should be good enough; out-
 performance seems superfluous.
 There is a time when it's essential that we outperform, and that's in falling markets.
 Our clients don't want to bear the full brunt of a market decline, and neither do we.
 In order for outperformance in bad markets to be achieved, a portfolio has to carry so much
 downside protection that it can render outperformance on the upside hard to achieve. It
 would be nice to be able to do both, but it's challenging.
 If we can just accomplish these two goals - market performance (or a bit better) in good
 times and highly superior performance in bad times - we'll end up with above average
 performance over full cycles; below average volatility; outperformance in tough times
 (when it really matters); enough resolve to be able to resist selling out at cyclical lows;
 and a favorable investing experience overall.

These goals may seem modest at first glance, but few investors have been capable of meeting
them for periods spanning multiple decades. They're the goals we've set for ourselves, and
we're proud to have reached them thus far.

The Role of Risk Management
U

The key to achieving superior returns in bad times (and especially to doing so without
stripping a portfolio of its potential to make money in good times) is found in the ability to
control risk. It's not a matter of finding winners, but of building a portfolio where upside
potential is accompanied by downside protection - no mean feat.

In the investment world, we hear a lot more about achieving returns than we do about controlling
risk. But as you explore the higher reaches of the profession - as you move into the hedge fund
world, for example - the latter grows in importance. Ultimately, the key is to be able to manage
risk well enough that upside can be attempted without commensurate exposure to downside.

The subject of risk control - and, especially, the process of assessing who does it well - is
extremely thorny. When I wrote the memo "Risk" in February, I thought I had hit on something
when I observed that risk is not measurable even after the fact. Now I want to take that thought a
little further.

Defining "A Good Job"
U

There are reasons why the headlines each year go to the person who achieved the highest
return, not the person who best managed risk. The first is that people care more about
return and are more titillated by it. But the second is that it can be far from obvious who
did the best job of risk management. Different investors can define investment risk
differently, but if it isn't the same as inter-month or inter-year volatility - and I'm convinced it's
not - then it can't be easily observed and quantified. This is especially true in good years, when
risk remains invisible.

One portfolio manager makes 10% and another makes 15%. Who did the better job? When I
attended the University of Chicago in 1967, I was taught that in order to decide how well a
portfolio had performed, you have to assess how much return was achieved and how much risk
 U U

was borne. That still makes sense to me. How much risk did a manager take? Which manager's
risk-adjusted return is higher? It can be hard to judge these things, but investors shouldn't wait
for a down year to attempt an answer.

Modern portfolio theory and the efficient market hypothesis define risk as volatility and tell us
that markets price assets so they'll offer returns that are proportional to their risk, no more and no
less. For this reason, they say, superior risk-adjusted returns cannot be achieved. The beauty of
inefficient markets - to the extent they exist - lies in the belief that this rule need not hold: that
you can get more return than is justified by the risk.

In efficient markets, all assets line up so that there's a fixed relationship between return and risk,
with no outliers. Risk and return are linked, and investors' results invariably fall along the line.

 Return

 Risk

In inefficient markets, mistakes are made, such that risk and return need not be strictly
proportional. Some investment merit is overrated, and some opportunities are overlooked. As a
result, it becomes possible to achieve superior and inferior risk-adjusted returns.
 U U

 Better

 Return

 Worse

 Risk

Not everyone quite understands this point, but I feel even those who do often fail to appreciate
all of the implications. Most observers think the advantage of inefficient markets lies in the fact
that a manager can take the same risk as a benchmark, for example, and earn a superior rate of
return. The following graph presents this idea and depicts the manager's "alpha," or value added
through skill.

 Portfolio

 Value
 Added

 Return
 Benchmark

 Risk

This manager has done a good job, but I think this is only half the story - and for me the
uninteresting half. An inefficient market can also offer the ability to achieve the same return
as the benchmark while taking less risk, and I think this is a great accomplishment. It
provides the foundation for achieving the performance goals enumerated on page 6.

 Portfolio

 Return
 Benchmark
 Value
 Added

 Risk

Here the manager's value added comes not through higher return at a given risk, but
through reduced risk at a given return. This, too, is a good job - maybe even a better one.

Some of this is semantic and depends on how you look at the graphs. But because I think
fundamental risk reduction can provide the foundation for an extremely successful investing
experience, this concept should receive more attention than it does. How do you enjoy the full
gain in up markets while simultaneously being positioned to achieve superior performance
in down markets? By capturing the up-market gain while bearing below-market risk.

The "best investor" profiled by the media each year is usually the one with the highest return.
Risk control is rarely lauded, in part because it's often invisible. But that doesn't mean it's
unimportant. Most of the investing careers that produce the best records are notable at least
as much for the absence of losses and losing years as they are for spectacular gains. The
challenge is that these virtues usually become apparent only in big downdrafts. But certainly
they figure greatly in the long term.

Portable Alpha
U

Along with absolute-return investing and hedge funds, "portable alpha" is another big deal today.
It's often offered up as the next "silver bullet" - a surefire way for investors to achieve their
goals without fear of disappointment. So I want to give you my take on this phenomenon -
making clear, as usual, that I'm a mere observer, not an expert.

Portable alpha proposes the following: Suppose, for example, you want to invest $100 million in
mainstream stocks, and you also want alpha, leading to superior risk-adjusted returns. The
problem is that, traditionally, investors wanting to invest in a given asset class have been
restricted in their search for alpha to managers operating in that class. But if you acknowledge
that alpha is hard to achieve in mainstream stocks given the high degree of market efficiency,
you can use portable alpha to "transport alpha" earned in any other asset class to the portion of
your portfolio allocated to mainstream stocks.

So you give up on finding your alpha in the mainstream stock market and pursue it by
assembling a "value-added" portfolio of funds run by highly skilled managers in a wide variety
of markets - probably in alternative investing fields such as hedge funds, private equity,
commodities, etc., and probably not in mainstream stocks. Then you assess how much market
exposure is embedded in the value-added funds and, using derivatives such as futures, swaps and
options, you add market exposure until the beta of the total portfolio equals the beta of $100
million of stocks. In this example, the market exposure implicit in the derivatives plus the funds
gives you the return on a $100 million passive portfolio of stocks, and the skillful management
of the funds gives you their managers' value added. The sum of the two achieves your goal: a
$100 million position in stocks with alpha.

Any time Wall Street packages existing elements to produce a surefire solution, my first
thought is "alchemy!" I don't want to be accused of neophobia - fear of anything new - but I
also doubt that sure things come along very often.

Do I believe that over time a combination of derivatives plus hedge funds can outperform the
same sum invested with traditional managers? Absolutely . . . but not necessarily for the reason
advanced by the advocates. And that brings me back to the subject of absolute return.

Value-added funds that generate alpha clearly are an essential ingredient if portable alpha is
going to work. Many managers claim the ability to generate alpha based on their skill,
experience and access to alpha-generating strategies. But only the best will prove able to
accomplish the difficult task of obtaining true alpha, after returns have been adjusted to
recognize embedded beta bets. Thus real alpha may not always be responsible for portable
alpha's contribution.

In my opinion, a more common reason for a portable alpha portfolio to deliver higher returns
over time may be that it entails leverage. Because the value-added funds may not be as "market
neutral" or "absolute return" as is thought - and because portable alpha managers may fail to
properly adjust for embedded betas - the market exposure delivered by the total portfolio can
end up being more than would be entailed in its benchmark (e.g., a traditional long-only stock
portfolio). In that case, the portable alpha portfolio will represent a leveraged position. (That is,
the sum of the beta on the derivatives plus the beta on the funds may exceed the beta of a
traditional stock portfolio.)

If that's true, the portable alpha portfolio should provide higher returns in up markets than the
traditional portfolio. This will be so as long as traditional managers' alphas aren't sufficient to
offset both the leverage and the value-added fund managers' alphas (which everyone assumes is
out of the question given today's belief in alternative funds and disrespect for traditional
investing). But the portable alpha portfolio may lose more in down markets unless the
value-added fund managers' alpha exceeds the traditional managers' alpha by enough to
offset the increased losses that can stem from a portable alpha portfolio's leveraged market
exposure.

Now then, if pension funds or endowments aren't permitted to borrow to achieve leverage and
want to increase market exposure this way, I say "have at it." But they should call it what it is,
rather than insist that they're combining 2 plus 2 and getting 5.

And remember that even after a portable alpha program has been in place for a period of years
and produced results ahead of its benchmarks, it may not be possible to accurately assess
whether the advantage came from the skill of the value-added managers, the effectiveness of the
portable alpha approach, or leveraged market exposure. Because risk often is truly invisible, you
can't always tell how much market risk you bore, and thus whether the key was really alpha or
beta.

Portable alpha has the potential to improve results - in good markets and generally over time
(since markets usually go up). But it won't do so in all markets - or do so on a risk-adjusted
basis - unless the person given the job of structuring the portable alpha portfolio can (a) identify
and access value-added funds that truly are capable of generating alpha, (b) accurately gauge
their embedded risk, and (c) properly structure the overall portfolio.

Outstanding managers may be able to satisfy the criteria for success enumerated just above, but
that doesn't mean they'll do it all the time. And there's no assurance that less capable managers
will do it even on average. So, once again, the mere term "portable alpha" doesn't hold the
key to success. Success will only be found in execution of the concept by managers

possessing rare skill. To think every would-be purveyor of portable alpha will be able to do
it consistently is, like so many other things in my investment experience, too good to be
true. Without great execution, "portable alpha" is just one more seductive label.

 * * *

No market is entirely efficient and none is entirely inefficient. It's all a matter of degree. In the
same way, few if any funds are entirely market neutral, and even those that aim for absolute
returns will demonstrate considerable susceptibility to market fluctuations.

A lot depends on your preference for offense (which usually leads investors to non-hedged or
non-absolute investing) versus defense (for which managers emphasizing risk control - like
some hedge funds - may be best suited). In the long run, it comes down to identifying managers
who employ the style of investing that appeals to you and are capable of living up to your
expectations. Not that complicated, but far from easy.


Memo: You Can’t Eat IRR.

Until rather recently - certainly up to the early 1980s - "investing" was largely synonymous with
"stocks and bonds." And the performance of a stock or bond portfolio was evaluated in terms of
its rate of return. You invested a certain amount of capital, and the percentage by which it
increased in a given year was its annual return. To quantify performance over a multi-year
period, you chained the individual yearly returns to come up with a compound annual return:

 Annual Dollar Portfolio
 Return Gain Value

But in the last few decades, buyout and venture capital funds came along, changing things.
Funds like these start with capital commitments, call and invest their capital over time, and
thereafter manage and liquidate their portfolios. They expand and contract radically, and in
assessing their performance, it's clear that a given year's percentage return matters more - and
thus should be given more weight - if it was achieved when the fund held a lot of capital (and
less if it was not).

Investors wisely concluded that the performance of such funds should be assessed using a
measure capable of capturing this phenomenon. They turned to "internal rate of return," the
now-ubiquitous "IRR," as the yardstick with which to measure results for portfolios that
experience significant cash inflows and outflows.

In mathematical terms, IRR is the discount rate that sets a fund's cash outflows equal to its
inflows in present value terms. In other words, you list all of the fund's contributions and
distributions and solve for the discount rate that makes them add up to zero. If discounting at
20% accomplishes this, then the amounts received in distributions represent an average advance
of 20% per year over the capital contributed, and that's the fund's IRR.

I'll provide a simple example on the next page to illustrate the difference that can arise between
compound annual return and IRR.

 Annual Dollar Portfolio
 Fund A Return Gain Distribution Value

The 10% gain in year one, achieved on starting capital of $1,000, produced a $100 gain in the
fund's value. The 100% return in year three, on the other hand, was applied to just $50 of
capital, producing a gain of $50. Although the percentage return was much higher in year three,
it produced just half the dollar gain as the smaller return in year one. Thus, in calculating the
fund's overall performance, the 100% return should be accorded much less weight than the 10%
return. IRR produces that result (whereas compound annual return does not).

Because a given year's annual result is weighted in the IRR calculation by the number of dollars
in the fund that year, and thus counts for more when the fund is larger and less when it's smaller,
internal rate of return is referred to as a "dollar-weighted" return. To make the distinction clear,
the old compound annual return is now referred to as a "time-weighted" return. This nonsensical
term means that every year's individual return is given the same weight in the calculation. It's
the same as saying "equal-weighted," or even "unweighted" . . . but "time-weighted" sounds
much more scientific. (It's not for nothing that George Bernard Shaw defined professions as
"conspiracies against the laity.")

For Fund A, shown above, the three-year IRR is 21%. This is far more reflective of the amount
of wealth created than is the 45% time-weighted return. The difference arises because the IRR
calculation gives relatively little weight to the 100% return achieved in the third year, whereas
the time-weighted return gives it as much weight as the first-year gain of 10%.

To fully understand the importance of this distinction, consider Fund B, which achieves the same
annual returns as Fund A - and thus the same compound annual return - but holds on to all of its
capital through the end of the third year.

 Annual Dollar Portfolio
 Fund B Return Gain Distribution Value

The annual returns are the same for Fund B as for Fund A (and thus so is the three-year
compound annual return). But Fund B's IRR is 45% (the same as its compound annual return,
since there weren't any interim inflows or outflows), while Fund A's is 21%. The difference
arises because Fund B achieved its 100% return in year three with beginning capital of $1,540, as
compared with just $50 for Fund A. Fund B produced total distributions of $3,080, while Fund
A's distributions totaled only $1,350. Certainly Fund B's performance should be considered
superior - even though the two funds' time-weighted returns are the same. Fund B's superiority
is captured by its higher IRR.

Big Percentage Gains on Small Dollars - Real-Life Example #1
U

I would find it hard to invent examples as extreme as some of those provided by real life. Let's
look at the results for our first distressed debt fund - Special Credits Fund I - in 1996, its last
year in business.

This fund was formed in October 1988 with committed capital of $96.5 million, which was fully
drawn and invested by the end of 1990. It achieved annual before-fee returns ranging between
29% and 89% in 1991-94 and made large distributions in 1992-93. By the end of 1995, its since-
inception time-weighted return had reached 23.7%, its IRR stood at 24.0%, and it was down to
one asset carried on the books at $1.9 million. So far, a simple picture.

In the first few weeks of 1996, that sole remaining asset was sold for more than $10 million. On
the strength of that sale, the fund reported a 579.1% annual return for 1996. This high annual
return (and the very brief period of time it took to achieve it) had the effect of doubling the
fund's time-weighted return from 23.7% at the end of 1995 to 46.9% in 1996.

And yet, the $8 million profit realized on the sale of that last asset added just 8% to the fund's
total dollar gain, bringing it to $104 million. Properly, the effect on the fund's cumulative IRR
of this small-dollar, high-percentage gain was limited to lifting it just from 24.0% at the
beginning of 1996 to 25.5% at the end. It goes without saying that, if relied on, the time-
weighted return of 46.9% would have presented a highly distorted picture of this fund's
achievements. IRR is much better than time-weighted returns because it isn't fooled by high
percentage returns achieved with little capital invested.

Time-weighted returns are irrelevant for evaluating the performance of private equity-type
funds. IRR is the answer. Or is it?

IRR's Limitations
U

The good news is that internal rate of return is infinitely better than time-weighted return
as a tool with which to evaluate the performance of funds that expand and contract. The
bad news is that IRR is far from perfect, far from sufficient, and relied on far too much.

Most of IRR's shortcomings surround the very phenomena it is designed to capture: inflows and
outflows. Because private equity funds can expand and contract at widely varying rates, IRR
can't tell the whole story. IRR shows how good a job the manager did with the capital he

employed. But it doesn't tell you anything, for example, about how promptly he put the
capital to work.

Here are the results for two funds, both of which have committed capital of $1,000:

 Fund X Fund Y
 Capital Invested Annual Capital Invested Annual
 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31
Year Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value

Because they both made capital calls at the same time and in the same proportions, and they both
achieved the same annual returns on their invested capital, Fund X and Fund Y show the same
IRR. But Fund X racked up dollar gains totaling $784 on its $1,000 capital commitment, while
Fund Y's gains totaled just $78. Even though they had the same IRR, no one would say they
performed equally well. Fund X called down all of its capital and invested it profitably, while
Fund Y called down and invested only a tenth of its capital. The process through which IRRs are
calculated is oblivious to that important difference, since its only inputs are fund contributions
and distributions.

The manager of Fund X got the money to work much faster than Fund Y and produced $704
more of gains on the same $1,000 capital commitment. If two funds can produce the same
IRR but such different total profits, IRR simply can't be a perfect yardstick. Clearly, the
ability of a manager to put capital to work both profitably and promptly has to matter.
 U U

How about funds X and Z? (The data is the same as in the table above, other than the fact that
each of Fund Z's annual returns has been increased by ten percentage points versus Fund Y.)

 Fund X Fund Z
 Capital Invested Annual Capital Invested Annual
 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31
Year Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value

Now Fund Z's IRR isn't the same as Fund X's - it's higher. But Fund Z produced dollar gains
totaling just $111, while Fund X's gains total $782. Fund X - with the lower IRR - has to have
done the better job. Again, evaluation based solely on IRR proves clearly inadequate.

The Answer (Maybe): Times-Capital-Returned
U

Because of the shortcomings of IRR - primarily the fact that it tells you what the return was on
the capital employed but not how much capital was actually employed - people seeking to
measure fund performance have come up with an alternative measurement: times-capital-
returned, or TCR (that's my name for it; there are lots of others).

Whereas the calculation of IRR is complicated, for TCR it's simple: How much did you commit
to the fund, and how much did it return? If you commit $1 million to a fund and receive
distributions totaling $2 million over its life, its times-capital-returned is 2.

TCR solves IRR's problem with undrawn capital. Looking at the table on page 4, Fund X's TCR
is 1.78 (ending value of $1,784 divided by committed capital of $1,000), and Fund Y's TCR is
1.08 ($1,078 - the total of the ending value of $178 and the uncalled capital of $900 - divided by
committed capital of $1,000). The difference between the two TCR ratios reflects the fact that
even though the two funds earned the same return on the money they managed to invest, Fund X
did a far better job of putting its capital to work.

Before proceeding, it's important to note that there is considerable unevenness in the way
profitability ratios are calculated. Some people don't look at the ratio of ending value to
committed capital, but rather at the ratio of ending value to contributed capital or invested cost,
sometimes called a "multiple of cost." I consider this highly inappropriate, as it tells you how
much was earned on the capital that was invested but does not deal at all with the fact that
capital went undrawn (and as such it shares IRR's great shortcoming). Certainly managers
should be held responsible if they fail to promptly invest the capital commitments they accept.
Multiples based on investment rather than commitment don't accomplish this.

Let's calculate the multiple of cost - the ratio of ending value to contributed capital - to the data
for Funds X and Y shown on page 4. Fund X's ratio is 1.78 ($1,784 divided by $1,000). So is
Fund Y's ($178 divided by $100). But who doesn't think Fund X did the better job?

As opposed to a fund that calls down 10% of its committed capital and achieves a high IRR and
multiple of cost, a limited partner would probably prefer a fund that draws down all of its capital
and earns even a somewhat lower IRR and multiple of cost. Of course, this ultimately depends
on how the limited partner feels about having capital uncalled, and on what he does with it while
it is uncalled.

Times-capital-returned (in which committed capital is the divisor) is much better than IRR
in that it takes into consideration both how much of the committed capital was called and U U

the return that was earned on it.

Unfortunately, times-capital-returned isn't perfect either. Simply by holding on to its capital
long enough, a low-return fund can produce a higher TCR than a high-return fund. But it may
not have done the better job.

Let's consider two more funds: L and M, each with committed capital of $1,000. Fund L calls
all of its capital and earns 20% per year for four years (turning the $1,000 into $2,074). Fund M
also calls all of its capital, and earns a return of 5% per year, but it goes fifteen years without
selling an asset or making a distribution. In this way, Fund M turns its $1,000 into $2,079.
According to TCR, they performed the same. But in order to turn $1,000 into $2,070, would you
rather give up the use of your money for four years or fifteen? I'd rather be in Fund L.

How Should Performance Be Judged: IRR or TCR?
U

In comparing two funds, if one has a higher internal rate of return and a higher times-capital-
returned, certainly it did the better job.

 Fund G Fund H
 Capital Invested Annual Capital Invested Annual
 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31
 Year Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value

Although Funds G and H had the same annual returns, Fund G's IRR is higher because it had
more money invested in high-return years three and four. That gave it a higher TCR, at 2.25
(ending value of $2,250 divided by $1,000) as opposed to Fund H's 1.76 (ending value of $962
plus $800 returned, divided by $1,000), as well as a higher IRR. With both a higher IRR and a
higher TCR, it's easy to see that Fund G did better.

But it's possible for one fund to have the higher IRR and the other the higher TCR. In the
following comparison, the two funds drew down their capital at the same rate and again had the
same annual returns, but Fund J held on to its assets while its returns declined, whereas Fund K
made significant distributions at the beginning of years three and four.

 Fund J Fund K
 Capital Invested Annual Capital Invested Annual
 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31 Call Capital Return Dollar 12/31
Year Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value Jan. 1 Jan. 1 (%) Gain Value

Because Fund J didn't make any distributions, the greater amount of capital it held in low-return
years three and four pulled down its IRR even as its times-capital-returned grew past that of
Fund K. Fund J's ending value is $1,511, and thus its TCR is 1.51. Fund K had ending capital
of $629 and distributed $800, for terminal value of $1,429 and a TCR of 1.43. But if Fund K's
investors were able to earn more than $82 in years three and four on the $800 they got back
(requiring an average annual return of 6.5%), then Fund K did a better job than Fund J. So while
we know IRR isn't perfect, TCR isn't either, as the fund with the higher TCR may not
have been the better performer. Maybe Fund K, with its lower TCR, did the better job.

How should we judge fund performance? Only thorough evaluation can lead to the right
answer. Complex, multi-dimensional analysis is required. No one number can be relied on
to produce a proper conclusion. Here's a list of things you have to weigh. There simply is no
cookie-cutter method - no single calculation - that considers them all.

 The internal rate of return,
 The times-capital-returned,
 The percentage of the capital that was put to work,
 The speed at which that capital was put to work,
 When investments were harvested and distributions made,
 What the LPs were able to do with capital that remained uncalled and/or was returned,
 What the LPs could have done with the capital that was called and/or not returned.

Finally, it's important - as in all other areas of investing - to consider how much risk a
fund took to earn its return. We've become accustomed to evaluating managers of public
securities on the basis of risk-adjusted returns, but this approach hasn't equally reached the
alternative markets. Part of this is because alternative assets generally haven't been marked to
market, and thus there are no meaningful figures for volatility (without those simplistic
measurements, risk analysis becomes a real challenge - see "Risk," January 6, 2006).

But clearly, for an oversimplified example, if buyout funds X and Y buy similar kinds of
companies and end up with similar IRRs and TCRs, but Fund X uses far less leverage than Fund
Y, I would tend to say that Fund X did a superior job. Their IRRs and TCRs alone tell us
nothing about their respective riskiness.

How are we to make distinctions when the assets purchased aren't comparable or the differences
in leverage and results are less than dramatic? What if one fund buys companies that are more
solid than another's? How do we compare a leveraged buyout fund against an unleveraged
venture capital fund (with its very low expected batting average)? Which is riskier, a highly
leveraged portfolio of safe assets or an unleveraged portfolio of risky assets? It's hard to make
these judgments, but that doesn't mean they're unimportant.

And while I'm on the subject of evaluating performance records, I want to raise the subject of
unevenness in the quality of performance data. Some managers mark their private holdings to
market and others carry them at cost. Some managers are more optimistic than others in marking
to market. Some managers discount large holdings of public securities for illiquidity while
others do not. And some managers highlight the results on just their realized investments, which
invariably are the best. For these and other reasons, IRR or TCR figures simply can't be
accepted at face value for funds that are still in operation and thus haven't turned all or almost all
of their investments into cash.

U Which Return Matters? - Real-Life Example #2

Another look at our real-life experience will give a clear view of the absolute conundrum posed
by performance assessment. We held a first closing for Opportunities Fund IVb in May 2002, at
which time we drew down $51 million. We averaged down while Enron bonds slid and
continued to draw capital and invest it as the whole distressed debt market tanked in June and
July, saddling the fund with some very significant mark-to-market losses in percentage terms.

The market bottomed in August-October, by the end of which period we had gotten the fund
more than 70% invested. Investor sentiment turned up dramatically in November, giving the
fund a 15% gain in that month alone - now with $1 billion invested.

Here are the results:

 Time-weighted
 Return Dollar Profit

As you can see, the fund had a large percentage loss in the first three months and a large
percentage gain in the subsequent five months. As a result, on a time-weighted basis, it showed
a small overall loss for the eight months taken together.

But the fund was a lot smaller in its initial down months than it was in the later up months. Thus
the LPs made a total of $195 million . . . whereas the time-weighted return says they made no
money at all.

The $195 million dollar profit translates into a 30.7% return on the $640 million of capital
employed in the fund on average during the eight months. And that 30.7% return on average
capital employed annualizes to 49.4%. Finally, the annualized IRR for the eight months - the
proper measure, according to the experts - was 61.4%.

So here are the returns for the fund:

Was the fund a marginal loser or a booming success? You pay your money and you take your
pick, as my mother used to say. But clearly, there's just one conclusion to be drawn with
absolute certainty: no one figure is capable of rendering a precise picture of fund
performance, particularly as relates to short periods of time.

Short-Term Success
U

Because IRRs are annualized returns, the results for part-year investments can be highly
misleading. I feel it is always undesirable to annualize returns on part-year investments,
but doing so is an unavoidable aspect of calculating their IRRs.

For me, it was the onset of option trading that first highlighted the folly of annualizing short-term
results. Back around 1973, exchange-traded options came into existence (whereas prior to that
time, options were an obscure corner of the investment world, traded over the counter among
"put-and-call brokers"). This made trading much easier; options attracted a lot of attention; and
the "buy/write" strategy became the new "silver bullet."

In a buy/write, you buy stock and write a call option that gives someone else the right to buy the
stock from you at a fixed "strike price" for a specified period of time. Suppose you buy 100
shares of XYZ at $40 and for $6 sell a call option that will permit someone else to buy those
shares a month later at $35. The total proceeds to you when the option is exercised will be the
$6 option premium and the $35 exercise price, for a total of $41. Your investment is $40. The
gain of $1 in one month, or 2.5%, annualizes to 30%. So people walked around saying, "I just
put on the XYZ buy/write at a 30% return." But at best they would have $41 in their pockets for
every $40 they started with, and that doesn't sound like a 30% gain to me.

(As usual, not only were the merits of a would-be silver bullet overstated, but its dangers were
often overlooked. Your dollar of profit and that beautiful 30% annualized return were entirely
contingent on the stock being above $35 on the option expiration date. If the stock fell, say,
from $40 to $30, the option would not be exercised and you would be left with stock worth $30
and the $6 option premium - for a total of $36 and a loss of $4 from the invested cost of $40.
And that 10% loss is real, not annualized!)

It's universally agreed that IRR is the right tool with which to evaluate vehicles like private
equity funds. And all approaches to calculating IRR implicitly annualize the returns on
investments held for less than a year and on funds that have been in existence for less than a
year. There is no alternative, despite the shortcomings of annualizing.

Of course, an investment shouldn't be judged to be successful on the basis of a high IRR alone,
especially if the TCR is low. Note, for example, that a 60% IRR on a $10 investment will
produce a gain of $16 over two years, but fifty cents if the opportunity lasts just a month.
Certainly the two investments cannot be described as having been equally successful.

Now more than at any other time, I hear a lot of clients say their private equity managers are
producing ultra-high IRRs over very short periods of time . . . but low times-capital-returned
ratios.

Dividend Recap Magic
U

Whenever a company borrows money, it becomes more risky, everything else being equal. Let's
say a company has $200 of debt and $200 of shareholders' equity supporting $400 of assets. If
the value of its assets declines 50%, its assets will just equal its debt, and its equity will be gone.
Now assume it borrows $100 with which to buy additional assets, giving it $300 of debt and
$200 of shareholders' equity supporting $500 of assets. It only takes a decline in asset value of
40% to wipe out its equity. This demonstrates that when a company increases its debt, the
impact of subsequent developments is magnified. That's why borrowing is also called leverage
. . . and why borrowing makes companies riskier.

But what if it borrows money and gives it to the shareholders? Take the same company with
$200 of debt and $200 of equity. Assume again that it borrows $100, but this time, rather than
buy assets, it distributes the cash to its equity investors. Now it has $300 of debt and $100 of
equity supporting the same $400 of assets, and it takes just a 25% decline in the value of its
assets to erase its equity. So whereas all borrowing makes companies riskier, borrowing for
dividends greatly amplifies the effect, as the assumption of debt doesn't lead to either the
acquisition of productive assets or an increase in cash reserves, but merely a decrease in
 U U

shareholders' equity.

For this reason, lenders should view borrowing for dividend distributions with extreme
skepticism. But it is a feature of the current capital market environment - with its excess of
enthusiasm and shortage of caution - that transactions designed to replace equity with debt have
become commonplace. According to CSFB, in the 36 months that began April 1, 2003, $68
billion was borrowed through high yield bond issuance or bank loans with the stated purpose of
paying dividends or repurchasing stock, whereas deals of this sort were largely unheard of prior
to that date. This is a clear sign of imprudence on the part of today's capital markets.

Of course, as they say in golf, "every putt makes somebody happy." The lender's lack of caution
can work to the borrower's benefit (assuming he can avoid financial mortality). In the case of
dividend recaps, the beneficiaries are buyout funds and their limited partners. Certainly

companies have appreciated in value in the last few years, but a substantial portion of the high
IRRs being reported by buyout funds is due to financial engineering and the availability of
equity-replacement debt. Dividend recaps are permitting equity investors to take some or all of
their capital off the table, reducing their capital at risk and leveraging up their reported rates of
returns. But it should be noted that whereas dividend recaps raise IRRs, they don't necessarily
add to investors' dollar profits. (And if they increase the total leverage on portfolio companies,
they can jeopardize the recovery of any remaining investment.)

Let's say a fund buys a company for $200 expecting to make $40 in a year, for a 20% IRR.
Assume a wacky capital market immediately lets the company borrow and dividend out $180
through a dividend recap. Now the fund's invested capital is down to $20, and the $40 expected
profit represents an IRR of 200% instead of 20%. The reported return is beautiful, but the fund's
expected gain is still just $40. Dividend recaps increase fund investors' wealth only if the
amounts dividended out can be reinvested profitably. Short of that, they represent
financial engineering but not value creation.

That - among other things - is the reason why I've titled this piece "You Can't Eat IRR."
A high internal rate of return does not in and of itself put money in one's pocket. Only
when it's applied to a material amount of invested capital for a significant period of time
does IRR produce wealth - something which is often (but not always) signified by a high TCR.
Investors evaluating fund performance should look at both IRR and TCR . . . and beyond.

So, Bottom Line: Good or Bad? - Real-Life Example #3
U

Just as this memo was about to go to print, a friend showed me the 2005 report of a fund of funds
and asked what I thought of its performance. Here are the facts: The fund was formed in mid-
2001 to buy secondary partnership interests (that is, interests in funds that limited partners want
to get rid of). My friend committed $750,000. Given the carnage earlier this decade in buyout
funds and, especially, venture capital funds, he felt (and still feels) his timing was quite good.

The fund's report consists of financial statements only, without any discussion to help a reader
understand the implications or limitations of the figures. As concerns performance, the fund
reports a since-inception internal rate of return of 27.1% and a "multiple of cost" of 1.45. So far,
pretty good.

But let's go behind the numbers.

 The first thing worth noting is that only $600,000 of my friend's $750,000 capital
 commitment has been drawn down. He doesn't understand why, given the dislocation of the
 early 2000s, all of his money hasn't been put to work. He suspects the General Partner may
 have taken too much in the way of capital commitments. (And he feels particularly badly
 that even before his fund has become fully invested, the GP has formed a successor fund.)

 The 27.1% IRR suggests the fund has done a good job with the capital it called down, but
 $150,000 remains in my friend's money market account. Thus he suspects his effective
 return on the entire $750,000 is lower because of the fund's slowness in putting his money to
 work.

 He also suspects that the 1.45x "multiple of cost" is misleading. That is, the $600,000 he
 contributed has been turned into $873,000, for a gain to date of $273,000. But he set aside
 $750,000 for this fund, and the $873,000 of current value (distributions plus assets still held),
 when added to the $150,000 not yet drawn (for a total of $1,023,000), represents a multiple
 of only 1.36 on his capital commitment.

 As of the end of 2005, the fund was roughly 41⁄2 years old. If it had invested his $750,000 at
 27.1% for that entire period, he would have $2,178,000. If it had just earned a 27.1% return
 on the $600,000 that was actually drawn down, he would have $1,742,000 (plus the undrawn
 $150,000, for a total of $1,892,000). And yet, he has just $1,023,000.

 The IRR of 27.1%, if applied to his contributed $600,000 (forget his committed $750,000),
 would have produced $1,142,000 of gains. And yet he sat at the end of 2005 with $273,000
 of actual gains. Simplistically to me, this suggests his contributed $600,000 has been at
 work earning 27.1% for only about a quarter, on average, of the 41⁄2 years since the
 fund's inception. This illustrates the shortcoming of IRR taken alone: its failure to penalize
 the GP for failing to put the money to work and keep it at work.

 Finally, since the fund has already returned more than half of the $873,000 into which the
 $600,000 grew, it's extremely unlikely that even further good returns will produce ultimate
 dollar gains approaching the amount he thinks he should have.

The fund reports an IRR of 27.1 % and a TCR of 1.45. But clearly, my friend doesn't have
anything near the profit he would have had if all of the money had been invested promptly and
kept invested. And the 1.45x "multiple of cost" is irrelevant to him; he wants to know what the
GP made for him on his entire commitment, not just the part it drew down. Using this fund's
approach to calculating the multiple, the GP looks better if it makes a few high-return
investments, whereas the investor would be better served if it invested the entire committed
amount - even at a materially lower return - and kept it out there longer. My friend has $1.36
for every dollar he committed, but a 41⁄2-year return of even 15% on his entire commitment
would have given him $1.86.

An IRR of 27.1% sounds impressive. Does it mean the fund has done a good job? It seems to
me that the GP accepted more committed capital than it could invest in a timely manner, charged
fees on that higher amount, put its capital out very slowly (and not yet in full), and wasn't able to
keep it out for long. I doubt the fund's LPs invested to earn 36 cents over 41⁄2 years per dollar
they committed. So no, I think, not a good job.

The real bottom line is that my friend committed $750,000 41⁄2 years ago and has $1,023,000
today. That's an average annual advance of 7.3%. As Clara Peller used to say in the
burger commercials, "Where's the beef?"

In this case - as in many, I suspect - both the IRR and the "multiple of cost" are next to useless.
It takes thought and insight to figure out how a fund did. As in all things, looking at published
figures must be just the first step.

 * * *

Making a lot of money with the risks under control isn't easy. It's not even easy to identify the
best performing managers. Not only is the quantification of returns themselves subject to debate,
but it's often far from obvious whose risk-adjusted-returns are the best. All performance
assessment demands quantitative ability tempered by judgment. But there is no alternative.
Reliance on a single figure can't possibly provide the answer - not even IRR.


Memo: Dare to Be Great.

In one of the most colorful vignettes of the early 1970s, Glenn Turner, the head of Koscot
Interplanetary, would fly into a small Midwestern town in his Learjet (when that was a huge
deal). Two dwarfs would hop out and unroll a red carpet. Turner would emerge under a banner
reading "Dare to Be Great" and vacuum up money through a pyramid marketing scheme based
on selling motivational tapes containing the secret of getting rich. Turner's long gone from the
scene, but daring to be great still deserves our consideration, even in the absence of a
surefire recipe for success.

This memo stems from an accumulation of thoughts on the subject of how investment
management clients might best pursue superior results. Typically my thoughts pile up, and then
something prompts me to turn them into a memo. In this case, the impetus came while I read
"Hedgehogging" by Barton Biggs. I'll come back to it later.

How Can We Achieve Superior Investment Results?

The answer is simple: not only am I unaware of any formula that alone will lead to above
average investment performance, but I'm convinced such a formula cannot exist. According to
one of my favorite sources of inspiration, the late John Kenneth Galbraith:

 There is nothing reliable to be learned about making money. If there were, study
 would be intense and everyone with a positive IQ would be rich.

Of course there can't be a roadmap to investment success. First, the collective actions of those
following the map would alter the landscape, rendering it ineffective. And second, everyone
following it would achieve the same results, and people would still look longingly at the top
quartile . . . the route to which would have to be found through other means.

I'll make a few suggestions below on what investors should and shouldn't do. In the end,
though, the things I suggest will be of little help without highly skilled implementation, and the
results will depend almost entirely on that implementation and rather little on my suggestions.

First, Get Out of Lake Wobegon

Nori Gerardo Lietz of Pension Consulting Alliance, in a paper on the performance of real estate
opportunity funds, was the latest to remind me about Garrison Keillor's fictional Lake Wobegon,
where all the children are above average. Investing, likewise, is a world where it seems
everyone claims to be terrific and can back it up with performance data. Especially in

alternative investing areas such as real estate and private equity, the managers make it sound like
they've done great. But the long-term average returns in most such areas have been lackluster,
and many managers' records are inconsistent. One of my favorite quotes came from "Dandy
Don" Meredith while announcing on Monday Night Football: "They don't make 'em anymore
the way they used to," he said, "but then again they never did." Rarely are the real records as
good as the ones people (and especially the managers who created them) fondly remember.

Take a look at the performance over time in venture capital, buyouts and real estate and you'll
see results for the median manager that are far from exciting. Professor Steven Kaplan, head of
the entrepreneurial studies department at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of
Business, authored a paper showing that a dollar invested in the totality of buyout funds between
1980 and 1997 did no better than a dollar invested in the S&P 500. And that was despite the fact
that the buyout funds were leveraged in a rising equity market and the S&P wasn't.

The eye-popping results of the funds at the top of the performance range draw money
magnetically to alternative investment areas, while the average return usually deserves a big
yawn. For superior results, it's absolutely essential to invest with superior managers.

My old boss at Citibank, Peter Vermilye, is famous for saying that only 5% of analysts add
value. That's probably true as well of portfolio managers, consultants and investment
committees and their members. (Of course you and I are in that 5%, but I have my doubts about
the others.)

The consensus opinion of market participants is baked into market prices. Thus, if investors lack
insight that is superior to the average of the people who make up the consensus, they should
expect average risk-adjusted performance. Few people are able to consistently identify cases
where the market price is wrong and act on them to their advantage. "But how about Peter
Lynch?" people respond. That's just the point. His singular reputation is proof how rare the
Peter Lynches are. As my mother used to say, it's the exception that proves the rule.

So, the first job in trying to access superior performance consists of getting in with the best funds
and managers. Everyone wants above-average results, but far from everyone can achieve them.
(Of course, the chore is complicated by the fact that the investment capacity of superior
investment vehicles is limited, and the inrush of money can itself render them less superior, since
the cost of investing will be pushed up as the money arrives.)

Escape From the Crowd

This just in: you can't take the same actions as everyone else and expect to outperform.
The search for superior results has to lead to the unusual, perhaps the idiosyncratic. Take
manager selection.

Above-average managers aren't easy to find. When you choose on the basis of a manager's
track record, it's the same record that everyone else sees. In order to make superior choices,
clients have to do in-depth analysis; get to know more than the record, reputation and printed
word; fully understand managers' approaches; make judgment calls based on that knowledge;

and take chances. Especially as to that last point, unusual success cannot lie in doing the
obvious. Two specific examples:

• New managers - Someone has to fund them (or else they'll never become established
 managers). But clearly that decision can't be based on reams of data. It involves making a
 bet on people and their investment approaches. Hiring new managers can pay off very well
 . . . when it's done right.

• Underperforming managers - Retain or fire . . . or add money? That's the real question.
 Good investors hold fast to their approach and discipline. But every approach goes out of
 favor from time to time, and the manager who adheres most firmly can do the worst. (Page
 217 of the book "Hedgehogging" provides fascinating data on some great managers' terrible
 times.) A lagging year or two doesn't make a manager a bad one . . . maybe just one whose
 market niche has been in the process of getting cheap. But how often are managers given
 more money when they're in a slump (as opposed to being fired)?

Buck the Trend

As in manager selection, bucking the trend is a key element in all aspects of the pursuit of
superior investment results. First, going along with the crowd will, by definition, lead to average
performance. Second, the crowd is usually in broad agreement - and wrong - at the extremes.
That's what creates the extremes (and the highly profitable recoveries therefrom). But going
against the crowd isn't easy. As Yale's David Swensen puts it,

 Establishing and maintaining an unconventional investment profile requires
 acceptance of uncomfortably idiosyncratic portfolios, which frequently appear
 downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom.

Non-consensus ideas have to be lonely. By definition, non-consensus ideas that are popular,
widely held or intuitively obvious are an oxymoron. Thus such ideas are uncomfortable; non-
conformists don't enjoy the warmth that comes with being at the center of the herd.

Further, unconventional ideas often appear imprudent. The popular definition of "prudent" -
especially in the investment world - is often twisted into "what everyone does." When courts
interpret Prudent Man laws, they take them to mean "what most intelligent, careful people would
do under those circumstances." But many of the things that have worked out best over the
years - betting on start-ups, buying the debt of bankrupt companies, shorting the stocks of
world-altering tech companies - looked downright imprudent to the masses at the time. (If
they weren't so out of favor, they couldn't have been implemented at such advantageous
prices and produced such huge returns.)

Bucking the trend does not have to be synonymous with taking a lot of investment risk. In fact,
it's following the crowd that's risky, since the crowd's actions take security prices to such
extremes.

Staying away from tech stocks in the late 1990s meant refusing to pay ridiculously high prices.
It wasn't risky in fundamental terms, but in that it required daring to be different. Those who
moved to underweight tech stocks when they first became overpriced were on the hot seat for a
long time. I don't think any other stock group in history has done as well as the techs in the late
1990s, and the 1999 divergence between growth stock returns and value stock returns was the
greatest ever. In the years leading up to March 2000, lots of managers were fired for having
underweighted tech stocks. That didn't make them wrong - just too early. While it wasn't easy
for them to stick to their guns - or for their clients to stay with them - it sure paid off.

Unconventionality

Unconventionality is required for superior investment results, especially in asset allocation. As I
mentioned above, you can't do the same things others do and expect to outperform.

Unconventionality shouldn't be a goal in itself, but rather a way of thinking. In order to
distinguish yourself from others, it helps to have ideas that are different and to process those
ideas differently. I conceptualize the situation as a simple 2-by-2 matrix:

 Conventional Unconventional
 Behavior Behavior
 Favorable Average good results Above-average results
 Outcomes
 Unfavorable Average bad results Below-average results
 Outcomes

Of course it's not easy and clear-cut, but I think that's the general situation. If your behavior and
that of your managers is conventional, you're likely to get conventional results - either good or
bad. Only if the behavior is unconventional is your performance likely to be
unconventional . . . and only if the judgments are superior is your performance likely to be
above average.

Contrarian investing, which is akin to unconventional investing, has been behind many of the
greatest successes. But that's not the same as saying all contrarian decisions are successful. As
is the case with unconventionality, you should not aim for contrarianism for its own sake, but
only when the reasons are good and the actions of the crowd look particularly foolish. If your
actions aren't founded on solid logic, (a) they're unlikely to work consistently, and (b) when the
going gets tough, you might find it hard to hold on through the lows. David Swensen puts it well
in his book, "Pioneering Portfolio Management":

 Contrarian, long-term investing poses extraordinary challenges under the best of
 circumstances. . . . Unfortunately, overcoming the tendency to follow the crowd,
 while necessary, proves insufficient to guarantee investment success. . . . While
 courage to take a different path enhances chances for success, investors face
 likely failure unless a thoughtful set of investment principles undergirds the
 courage.

I like to say Oaktree buys when people say "no way" and sells when they say "no sweat." We
bought Tumi in 2002, when people believed that because of 9/11, nobody would ever travel
again (or need luggage), and we sold it in 2004 when no one remembered having felt that way.
We gained control of Regal, Loews, Edwards and Landmark when people thought overexpansion
had sounded the death knell for the movie exhibition industry, and we began to sell when
industry capacity was rationalized and profitability rebounded. We bought land in Chicago when
everyone was sure there would never be another skyscraper built in the Loop, and we sold it
when they decided more were in fact needed. These transactions were highly profitable.

When someone says, "I wouldn't buy that at any price," it's as illogical as, "I'll take it regardless
of price." The latter can get you killed (see Nifty-Fifty growth stocks in 1969 and tech stocks in
1999), and the former can make you miss an opportunity. When everyone's eager to buy the
same thing, it's probably overpriced. And when no one is willing to buy something, it's equally
likely to be underpriced.

Be a Pioneer

In my experience, many of the most successful investments have entailed being early. That's
half the reason why I consider the greatest of all investment adages to be: "What the wise
man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end."

While there's no surefire route to investment success, I do believe one of the easiest ways to
make money is by buying things whose merits others haven't yet discovered. You ask,
"When do you get that chance?" Not often, (and certainly not easily today), but not never.

In 1978, Bache asked Citibank to manage a new mutual fund for it. Citibank turned the job over
to me: "There's some guy named Milken or something who works for a small brokerage firm in
California, issuing and trading high yield bonds. Can you find out what that means?"

Few people had ever heard of high yield bonds. There wasn't much historic performance data,
and what little there was came from a few obscure mutual funds. Buying bonds with a
meaningful probability of default certainly seemed imprudent. Most institutional portfolios had
an inviolate minimum credit rating for bonds of single-A or triple-B. Corporate CEOs said, "My
buddy's company was just threatened by a corporate raider backed by junk bonds; our pension
fund will never own any!" And no public or union pension trustee wanted the headline risk
associated with bankruptcy. In other words, the perfect buying opportunity.

Thus, our high yield bond portfolios have outperformed high grade bonds for two decades-plus,
by more than enough to compensate for their defaults, volatility and illiquidity. It's been a long-
term free lunch, and the earliest investors got the biggest helping.

Everyone craves market inefficiency, but most people are vague on what it means or where it
comes from. I've always thought a likely source can be a market niche that most people don't
know about, don't understand and don't feel comfortable with. That certainly describes high
yield bonds in 1978. It helps to be a pioneer.

Likewise, we were fortunate to turn to distressed debt in 1988. There weren't any distressed debt
funds from mainstream financial institutions, and the area was a little-known backwater. What
could be more unseemly - and less intuitively attractive - than investing in the debt of
companies that are bankrupt or sure to become so? Actually, what else could have been as
profitable? Distressed debt buyers have reaped high returns while enjoying the relative safety
that comes with paying low prices, investing in asset-rich companies and deleveraging their
capital structures.

To take early advantage of areas like these, you have to put your faith in concepts and
people, based on logical arguments and analyses but without the benefit of historic
performance data. That's how you make the big bucks.

(Today, of course, everyone is willing to do anything to make money. Moreover, everyone
assumes that the more outré the concept, the more likely it is to produce high returns. Thus,
today (a) few if any free lunches are available, and (b) risk-taking is likely to generate sub-par
rewards. That brings me to the second half of my favorite adage, regarding that which "the
fool does in the end.")

Up Against the Institution

Large investment management firms, pension funds, endowments, investment committees;
they're all institutions. As such, they tend to engage in what is described as "institutional
behavior" - an oft-heard phrase that's rarely intended as a compliment. We all know what's
implied: shared decision making, diffused responsibility, personal risk minimization, and go-
along-to-get-along interaction. All of these things work to discourage unconventionality, and
thus to render superior investment results elusive.

David Swensen takes direct aim at institutional behavior. In fact, he makes repeated use of the
word "institution," as if invoking a negative mantra.

 . . . active management strategies demand uninstitutional behavior from
 institutions, creating a paradox that few can unravel. (my personal favorite,
 emphasis added)

 By operating in the institutional mainstream of short-horizon, uncontroversial
 opportunities, committee members and staff ensure unspectacular results, while
 missing potentially rewarding longer-term contrarian plays.

 Creating a governance process that encourages long-term, independent, contrarian
 investing poses an enormous challenge to endowed institutions.

Whether the connotation has to be negative is unclear. But certainly it is true that
"idiosyncratic" and "unconventional" seem to go with "unusual investment results," but
probably not with "institutional" and "bureaucratic." I encourage everyone to examine the

sorts of behavior that characterize their organizations and see if anything can be changed to
increase the likelihood of success.

Committees

I don't like being on committees. I was on five of them at Citibank (before moving downward in
the organization from Director of Research to just-plain portfolio manager in 1978), and thus I
had eleven hours of meetings scheduled per week before I walked in the door each Monday
morning. I've always felt that committee meetings tend to last as long as the person who wants
them to last the longest wants them to last. Since that's never me, they make me impatient
(unless they're doing really interesting stuff). Oaktree generally doesn't have committees, but
it's a matter of local option; our Principal Group works through investment committees that
everyone seems happy with and that have produced great results.

In "Hedgehogging," under the heading "Groupthink Stinks," Barton Biggs lists a number of the
shortcomings of committees, borrowing from Yale psychologist Irving Janis. He says these
structures encourage:

• collective rationalization of shared illusions generally believed,
• negative stereotypes of out-of-favor groups, techniques and individuals,
• unwarranted confidence in chosen approaches,
• unanimity, suppression of doubts and pressure on dissenters,
• docility on the part of individual members,
• free-floating conversations during meetings, and
• non-adherence to standardized methodologies.

It's easy to believe that these elements are fostered in decision making groups. And certainly
they are undesirable and must be guarded against. As Barton Biggs puts it,

 . . . groups of intelligent people have so many inherent liabilities that a lone
 individual has a far better chance of making good decisions. The collective
 intelligence of the group is surely less than the sum of its parts, and the more
 people on a committee, the less chance it has to be wise and crisp in its decision
 making.

I'd rather say, "The collective intelligence of the group often is less than the intelligence of its
one or two smartest members." By that I mean committees rarely aggregate the insights of their
members; rather they tend to reflect the average insightfulness of their members.

At Citibank in the mid-1970s, the senior-most panel, the Investment Policy Committee, would go
off-site for semi-annual retreats. The high point consisted of voting on which industries' stocks
would perform best over the coming year.

For some people, the result was a bell-shaped curve.

 A B

For others it was also bell-shaped, but with the placement of the industries reversed.

 B A

Some saw only big winners and big losers.

The bulls thought most would do average or better.

The bears thought most would do average or worse.

And the agnostics thought they'd all do about the same.

It was my sense that if you added up the members' individual distributions of expected
performance, you'd get a summary distribution that was pretty close to what would have been
generated randomly, and one largely devoid of valuable information. Certainly any unique
insight that a member of the committee might have would be lost in such an aggregation process.

Committees rarely take high-risk positions for which the members can be criticized. They
rarely embrace idiosyncratic opinions. They rarely capture the most insightful member's
uniqueness, as expressed in a lone non-conformist viewpoint. And thus they rarely produce
highly superior investment results. It's not impossible, just against the odds. Barton Biggs
says the chances of its happening can be improved if one or two members seize more-than-equal
power. It'll also help if it's the right ones who do so.

I think the key to successful committee efforts lies in "sparks." There should be intellectual
friction capable of generating heat and light: spirited discussion leading to unique insight.
Professor Janis urges the leader to create an atmosphere that fosters "intellectual suspicion
amidst personal trust." Barton Biggs suggests praising those who disagree with the trend;
designating devil's advocates; and holding second-chance meetings where members can take
another, skeptical look at decisions the group has made. He says, "harmonious, happy
meetings may be a warning of groupthink and complacency, whereas agitation, passionate
arguments and some stress are good signs." While these latter things are no guarantee of
correct, unconventional decisions, such decisions may prove elusive without them.

Agency Risk

Why don't investing institutions strive for unconventionality as often as they should? When they
don't dare to be great, why is that the case? One reason is the limitations inherent in institutional
behavior and committee decision making, as described above. Another is agency risk.

I first read about agency risk in 1983, in an article by Dean LeBaron of Batterymarch. It's risk
that arises when agents are hired to do a job in lieu of their principals, and it arises because the
agents' motivations may diverge from those of the principals. When you manage your own
money, the decisions are made according to your view of what's best for you. When other
people manage your money, the decisions may also be influenced by what's best for them.
How many times have you heard a hired hand say, "It's not worth my while to take that risk"?

The most basic agency issue arises because staff and investment committee members may gain
relatively little if their decisions are successful but can lose a lot (like their jobs and reputations)
if the decisions are unsuccessful. All else being equal, this can lead them to care more about
limiting risk than about achieving gains. (On the other hand, because hedge fund managers
participate in profits but not losses, this can make them care more about achieving gains than
about limiting risk.)

The litany of agency risks goes on, per David Swensen, "from trustees seeking to make an
impact during their term on the investment committee, to portfolio managers pursuing steady fee

income at the expense of investment excellence, to corporate managers diverting assets for
personal gain."

Whenever parties other than the owners are engaged in a process, there's a chance that they will
act (wittingly or unwittingly) in their own interests in addition to (or instead of) the interests of
the owners. This is inescapable, but not unmanageable.

The best way to deal with an issue is usually to put it on the table. Sunlight is a great
disinfectant. All decision-making processes should recognize and take into consideration the
factors influencing the decision makers. Candid discussion is usually the first step.

Another way to address the issue is through incentives, to which creative principals should pay a
lot of attention. An experienced director told Forbes in the early 1990s, "I've given up on trying
to get people to do what I tell them to do; they do what I pay them to do." To the extent
possible, people involved in the investment process should be able to look forward to rewards for
attempts at nonconformity, not just penalties for decisions that don't work. That might be the
best response to John Maynard Keynes's observation: "Worldly wisdom teaches that it is
better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally."

Insist on Using Consultants Constructively

Consultants are what you make of them. They can bring expertise and data that only the largest
of institutional investors can build internally. They can introduce ideas they're seeing in use
elsewhere. They can support investors' efforts to innovate while making sure they don't go so
far as to endanger the corpus. Because few institutions can afford to home-grow all of the
resources that a good consultant has, consultants truly can be additive.

Or, they can just be used as a source of cover. Their stamp of approval can be sought as
protection against potential criticism. They can be used to ensure that the portfolio is never
different enough from the herd to stand out. They can be hired - and motivated - to preclude
innovation. Frighteningly, a consultant once told me, "I never initiate; if I did, I could be
criticized for being wrong. I just opine when asked."

By supplying new ideas and needed data in support of an effort to be great, consultants clearly
can add value. But left in bureaucratic mode, it is possible for them to contribute nothing other
than protection. The choice - of consultant and modus operandi - is up to the client.

Recognize That All Investors Aren't Created Equal

Wouldn't it be great if the rules in Las Vegas were changed so there would be winners but no
losers? Can't capitalism allow some businesses to thrive without requiring that some fail? Can't
we have survival of the fittest without the demise of the less fit? Wouldn't it be nice?

And wouldn't it be nice if everyone could make an equally positive contribution to
investment results? But they can't.

Investment committee decisions can't be improved by members possessing below average skill,
experience and expertise. The bottom 50% of the universe may help by giving the top
participants a manager median they can beat, but they do not contribute to the pursuit of superior
results for themselves or those who employ them.

Some investment organizations are egalitarian and democratic. Participation in the investment
process is broad and diffuse. Everyone gets a little money to manage, or everyone gets a vote.
This approach doesn't appeal to me, because of my conviction that investment skill isn't
distributed evenly.

Every team includes some members who are more skilled than others. It is they who should
have greater influence in the decision making process. It's nice to see the junior members
developed as professionals and given valuable experience, but bringing more people into the
process doesn't necessarily enhance performance in the short run.

I've watched an investment organization at work where the portfolio was divided up among
several professionals, each of whom ran his portion separately. It seemed to me that each one
engaged in individual stock-picking; no one was responsible for considering the portfolio's
overall diversification and risk; and, in fact, each person relied (without justification) on the
others to balance out the extremeness of his actions. The resulting portfolios represented little
more than a bunch of concentrated bets on personal favorites thought to have home run potential.

Systems do exist in which responsibility for portfolio management is apportioned, and they can
work. But they have to incorporate rigorous coordination and overall risk management. They
can achieve camaraderie, personnel development and results that are mostly down the middle of
the fairway with contributions from several minds - all good things. But I don't believe that
broadly sharing or dispersing portfolio management responsibility is likely to lead to highly
superior returns.

We get a lot of questionnaires asking, "Which portfolio manager will be assigned to our account?
What assurance do we have that our manager won't deviate from your standards?" Our answer
is simple: all the portfolios in each Oaktree strategy are managed by a single individual or team.
I don't believe in broadly dispersed portfolio management responsibility, and I don't think you
should, either.

Avoid Common Mistakes

Lastly, I want to mention some of what I believe are mistakes I've seen made by investors and
investment committees. Hopefully this will help stamp out some of them.

• Over-diversifying - It's common for portfolios to have rules stating that they can't invest
 more than x% per manager or per fund. However, it's probably only on rare occasions that
 they approach those limits. In my opinion, most portfolios are spread too thin. While it's
 true that only large positions can get you into trouble, it's equally true that only large
 positions can make a big contribution. (This is one of the great dilemmas in investing.)

 When I see 1% or 1⁄2% of portfolio capital invested with a trusted (and diversified) fund or
 manager, it strikes me as too little. A manager who has earned his clients' confidence should
 be entrusted with enough money to make a difference in overall portfolio results. One
 pension plan was bold enough to let Oaktree manage 70% of its alternatives portfolio, and
 this led to a relationship that was wildly successful for both sides. How many investors
 would have taken that chance?

• Limiting the percentage of a manager's AUM - As a counterpoint to the above, I've heard
 committees say, "We don't want to represent more than x% of the manager's assets under
 management, or of the fund's total capital." But why not? Is the goal better performance,
 or is it safety in numbers? If you're considering investing $10 million with a manager, why
 does it matter how much money she manages? Why is investing $10 million safe if she
 manages $1 billion but risky if she manages $50 million? If a manager is unusually skillful,
 aren't you better off as her client (all else equal) if she manages less money rather than more?
 And if a manager was really good, wouldn't you prefer that she managed only your money?
 Wouldn't that be a great way to differentiate your performance (assuming you're right)? The
 pension client referred to above committed 40% of the capital for the initial fund in a new
 Oaktree strategy. Mistake? Not with an after-fee gain of 118% over the next three years.

• Moderating - Committees often prefer to take baby steps, go slow, and invest less than the
 maximum possible. But in the pursuit of superior investment results, moderation is not
 a virtue in and of itself. When you look at the portfolios that do better than others over
 time, like the Yale and Harvard endowments, you usually see very substantial commitments
 to individual strategies, managers and funds. In fact, you invariably see commitments that
 could have gotten the decision makers into trouble if they'd gone wrong.

• Managing toward peer allocations - Finally, I often see investors make reference to their
 peers' portfolios when setting allocations. It's unlikely that they're looking for the "right"
 allocation, but rather one ensuring that performance won't be far below the pack. But if
 you've mirrored the pack enough to be sure you can't underperform, then it's also
 likely that you won't outperform. Like everything else in the investing world (other than
 "alpha," or genuine personal skill), emulating the pack cuts both ways.

My most specific and most heartfelt advice is this: The surest way to achieve superior
performance is by investing significant amounts with individuals and firms that can be
depended on for investment skill, risk control, and fair treatment of clients.

When you're dealing with investments where reliable probabilities can't be assigned to the
possible outcomes, or which entail the possibility of significant risk to the corpus (make-it-or-
break-it-type risks), failing to diversify can be a big mistake. But when you know of managers
and strategies that appear to offer high returns with bearable, controlled risks, and when
reasonable judgments can be made about the probable outcomes, it's failing to concentrate that
can be the big mistake.

In short, if you can get money to work with people that your experience shows you can rely
on, load up!

 * * *

The bottom line on striving for superior performance has a lot to do with daring to be great.
Especially in terms of asset allocation, "can't lose" usually goes hand-in-hand with "can't
win." One of the investor's or the committee's first and most fundamental decisions has to be on
the question of how far out the portfolio will venture. How much emphasis should be put on
diversifying, avoiding risk and ensuring against below-pack performance, and how much
on sacrificing these things in the hope of doing better?

I learned a lot from my favorite fortune cookie: The cautious seldom err or write great
poetry. It cuts two ways, which makes it thought-provoking. Caution can help us avoid
mistakes, but it can also keep us from great accomplishments.

Personally, I like caution in money managers. I believe that in many cases, the avoidance of
losses and terrible years is more easily achieved than repeated greatness, and thus risk control is
more likely to create a solid foundation for a superior long-term track record. Investing scared,
requiring good value and a substantial margin for error, and being conscious of what you don't
know and can't control are hallmarks of the best investors I know.

But in assembling a portfolio of managers and strategies, there has to be an element of
boldness if you hope to enjoy superior returns. Too large a dose of caution in asset allocation
can keep portfolios from outperforming the norm.

Two additional factors bear on the integration of risk management in asset allocation, with its
pivotal role in portfolio construction:

• First, as Professor William Sharpe demonstrated, adding a risky strategy to a portfolio with
 which it is uncorrelated can reduce the overall riskiness of the portfolio.

• Second, it should be borne in mind that when one portfolio places a greater emphasis than
 another on managers who lean toward risk control, that portfolio can allocate more of its
 capital to risky strategies without having a higher overall quantum of risk. Thus, while
 restricting your total risk to your targeted level, would you rather allocate more money to
 the aggressive asset classes via risk-controlling managers, or less money with free-
 wheeling managers?

 * * *

I hope this memo won't come across as preachy. The things discussed here are challenging,
and I don't claim to be much better at them than anyone else. I've sat on the investor's side of
the table. I've been a member of several investment committees. I know it's a tough job.
Committee and staff members have to act in what they consider to be the best interests of the
beneficiaries, trying for superior returns but avoiding unacceptable losses. They also have to

choose investment managers, separating the ones that sound good and are from the ones that
sound good and aren't. (The ones that don't sound good usually aren't let out on the road.) All
we can do is our best.

The right approach to portfolio construction has to combine discipline and hard work; skillful,
intelligent risk bearing; and insight, flair and talent. In that regard, I'll cite the last three words
of Barton Biggs's chapter on groupthink: "It's not easy."

Regulations require me to point out that the performance of the investments mentioned herein
may be more favorable than, and not representative of, other investments made by Oaktree. If
you would like information regarding investments other than those presented here, please
contact your client representative. We make no representation, and it should not be assumed,
that past investment performance is an indication of future returns. Moreover, wherever there is
the potential for profit there is also the possibility of loss.


Memo: The New Paradigm.

When I was a kid, no one ate kiwi fruit or heirloom tomatoes - or had ever heard of them, for
that matter. And then, all of a sudden, they were everywhere. The same is true for the word
"paradigm": no one had heard the word, and then one day it was part of everyday speech,
especially that of management consultants and other savants.

"Paradigm" seems to invariably be used along with the word "new." No one ever talks about the
old paradigm. Just as there's newness to the word, there's usually newness to the subject it
describes. And there's usually a connotation that the new paradigm represents progress.

I believe a new paradigm has taken hold in the investment world, bringing with it vast changes -
and not necessarily for the better. The situation today is very different from that of just five or
six years ago, and the implications for the future are nothing short of profound. But I haven't
seen this overall subject given much attention.

The Good Old Days
U

In the old days - meaning prior to the current millennium - the investment world was different
from that of today in a number of important ways:

 Risk capital was in limited supply.

 Risk aversion was reasonably present, such that in order for risky investments to be
 undertaken, that risk aversion had to be overcome by high promised returns. The
 reluctance to make risky investments also meant that they had to be supported by research
 and analysis performed by skeptical experts.

 There was a particular aversion to new, unproven and "alternative" forms of
 investment. Fiduciary caution was an overarching consideration. With the returns from
 U.S. equities expected to handily exceed the overall return needs of pension funds and
 endowments, alternative investments were something of an exotic luxury: tempting but also
 non-essential and somewhat forbidding.

 Because the amounts of capital pursuing alternative investments were limited, investors had
 negotiating power and were able to insist on, among other things, an incentive system that
 aligned their interests with those of their money mangers, in which fixed fees merely covered
 managers' expenses and incentive fees offered managers the hoped-for brass ring.

The Great New Days
U

In my view, all of the elements listed above have changed drastically in the last few years.
(You've seen some of this from me before, but not all in one place.)

 The stock market's losses in 2000-02 substantially cooled investors' ardor for equities.
 Instead of 9-11%, U.S. stocks now are universally expected to return just 5-7%. Thus
 pension funds and endowments that need 8% or more are looking elsewhere for return.
 That "elsewhere" means non-traditional market niches such as buyouts, venture capital,
 hedge funds, real estate and emerging market equities and debt.

 This stretch for return has overcome innate caution. Any aversion to the risks entailed in
 these markets has been wiped away by the combination of (1) the perceived paucity of return
 in traditional stocks and bonds, (2) the high returns achieved recently in the alternate
 markets, and (3) the failure of risk to turn into loss in the last few years. Recent successes
 have erased from the collective consciousness any reluctance to undertake the new, unproven
 or risky.

 As a result, large amounts of money are demanding access to the alternative markets.
 However, these markets are much smaller than the traditional stock and bond markets that
 now seem uninteresting. (The Financial Times reported on September 11 that according to
 JPMorgan, the alternative investment world amounts to $3 trillion, while the size of the
 mainstream bond and equity world is estimated at $60 trillion.) Thus the amounts people are
 trying to invest can overwhelm these markets. For this reason, investors may attach more
 importance to the ability to put large sums to work than to being able to attain historic
 returns and risk premiums, clear high due diligence hurdles, or structure fee
 arrangements that channel managers' energies for the benefit of clients.

 For now, the high level of liquidity is creating a "virtuous cycle." The inflows have (1)
 given rise to asset appreciation, high returns and further demand, and (2) made it easy for
 weak companies to finance their way out of trouble, thus contributing to the impression that
 the level of risk is low.

 The business model for managers in these areas has been completely altered by these
 developments. Because the amounts under management are so large (and the ability to
 charge high management fees is so great), managers can get rich off management fees and
 deal fees alone. For managers, then, high returns may be a nice-to-have, not a need-to-
 have, and avoiding endangering the fee machine can become a greater preoccupation.

It is my view that, in combination, these developments have had a number of undesirable effects
on the investment environment such that:

 Willingness to bear risk is up.
 Insistence on high risk premiums is down.
 Skepticism is down, and there's widespread willingness to suspend disbelief.
 Demand for t-crossing and i-dotting is in retreat.
 Quantity can replace quality as the sine qua non for portfolio construction.

I'll provide a few examples below to illustrate what I think is going on in the alternative markets.

Buyouts: Where's the Magic?
U

A startling revolution has taken place among buyout funds in the last year or so. Let's take a
look at how we got here.

So many of the big-name, highly leveraged buyouts of the late 1980s went bankrupt in 1990 -
Macy's, Federated, National Gypsum, etc., etc. - that the industry had to recreate itself, dropping
the discredited word "leveraged" and the previously ubiquitous acronym LBO. Instead, the
industry began to call what it does "buyouts" or "private equity." It switched its model from
loading massive leverage on venerable, multi-billion dollar companies to the mantras of
"platform and buildup" and "consolidate the industry."

In the 1990s, the low levels of leverage permitted by chastened lenders kept the buyout boys
from closing any landmark acquisitions, but also from loading on enough debt to render their
companies vulnerable to distress. In order to lose huge amounts of capital, buyout funds had to
venture into the tech and telecom arenas, and relatively few rose to the occasion. Thus buyout
funds got through the 2002 debt debacle largely unscathed. The buyouts of the 1990s did not
give rise to a high level of bankruptcies, but neither were the returns spectacular, even with
leveraged equity in a rising stock market.

The pioneers of the buyout business - like KKR, Warburg Pincus and Apax Partners - enjoyed
the spectacular success that can come with early entry and good execution. But as a result of the
trends since the mid-1980s, results for most buyout funds have been anything but spectacular.
As I mentioned in "Dare to be Great," from 1980 to 1997 the typical fund performed just in line
with the unleveraged S&P 500. So what's happened since then?

 The stock market declined for three consecutive years for the first time since the 1930s.
 Buyout funds did okay.
 Expectations for returns from stocks have been almost halved.
 Financial engineering (in an extremely benign capital market) has enabled buyout funds
 formed in the last few years to report sky-high internal rates of return on their early winners.

As a result of the above, the demand for funds in the buyout field - and especially "big buyout" -
is absolutely booming. I believe that in 2000, KKR couldn't get $10 billion for its Millennium
Fund and closed at $6+ billion instead. Their current fund is at $15 billion, and that on top of $5
billion they raised through a public offering in Amsterdam earlier this year. Several funds have

been raised with capital in eleven figures, and $15 billion has become the new $5 billion. $6
billion is considered a mid-sized fund, and $2-3 billion feels like small-fry.

What's behind the boom? As elsewhere in the investment business, the buyout managers talk a
great game, and the best have produced excellent results over the years - although perhaps not
always as good as they intimate. In 1999, I explained distressed debt investing to a state pension
fund and said I thought we could make 20% before fees. "Buyout fund x was just in here," they
said, "and they think they can make 30%." I'm confident that most 1999 vintage buyout funds
didn't make 30%.

But in the last couple of years, cheap money made available by avid lenders - willing even to
lend money that would be paid out immediately to stockholders, increasing indebtedness but not
adding to assets, revenues or profits - has enabled buyout funds to shrink their equity
investments and supercharge their IRRs. Not always larger dollar profits or higher ratios of
terminal value to committed capital, but higher reported rates of return - probably in many cases
on small amounts of equity for brief periods of time (See "You Can't Eat IRR"). But people are
turned on by high percentage returns, and the dollars have followed.

I believe the largest pools of investment capital have given up on getting the returns they need
from now-debased equities and have turned to buyouts and the like for help. I imagine a thought
process that goes like this: "Historically, good buyout funds have had returns in the high teens
net of fees. Even though the environment isn't what it used to be, it should be a lay-up for them
to reach the low teens. I'd even be happy with 10%; it would certainly help me with my 8%
required return. And I can put a billion to work in one phone call."

Well, I'm not sure many buyout firms have produced historic average returns in the high teens.
(According to Bloomberg, "U.S. buyout funds produced returns of 13.3% during the past two
decades.") And even if the best did, that doesn't mean earning even low teens will be easy in the
environment ahead. Finally, I'm not convinced that returns in the low teens are enough to make
it worth bearing the risk that comes with leverage, illiquidity and competition for deals. But the
money flowing into buyout funds makes it clear that I'm in the minority.

The Outlook for Buyout Returns
U

Investors - in any field - can make money in four broad ways: buy cheap, add value, apply
financial engineering and sell dear. Let's examine each one as it applies to buyouts.

Buying cheap - The golden age of buyouts lasted from approximately the mid-1970s to the mid-
U U

1980s. What was the environment like as that period began?

 The stock market was in a terrible slump, with Business Week heralding "The Death of
 Equities."
 Companies could be bought cheaper through the stock market than they could be built for.
 Historically, before the age of leverage, one company could buy another only if the would-be
 acquirer was larger than the target. Thus the competition to acquire was limited.

 As the LBO era dawned, only a few organizations had the inclination and know-how
 required to buy companies bigger than themselves.
 Buyout funds were tiny, and their modus operandi consisted of paying bargain prices for
 small, little-known companies or orphaned divisions of larger companies with stable cash
 flows.

Today's environment bears little resemblance to that one. As I mentioned in a memo earlier this
year, I'd heard a buyout mogul say, "It's our job to buy good companies at fair prices and make
them better." I doubt he was content with fair-priced purchases thirty years ago.

 Listed companies are cheaper today than they were in 1999, but not nearly as cheap as in
 1976. The P/E ratio on the S&P 500 is 17.5 today versus 10.3 at the inception of the LBO
 movement three decades ago.
 To deploy unspent capital that in August was estimated by The Financial Times at $297
 billion, buyout funds will have to acquire companies worth roughly $1.5 trillion in the years
 ahead. That's a few percent of all of the world's stock markets.
 The buyout funds are competing with each other to spend their capital, and they also have to
 compete against strategic corporate buyers that have enjoyed strong profitability and are
 cash-rich. (Nevertheless, buyout funds often outbid strategic buyers, who in theory should be
 able to pay more because they can combine the acquiree's operations with their own and
 garner efficiencies.)
 In some cases, activist shareholders and cash-swollen hedge funds are pushing managements
 (and boards under increased scrutiny) to demand higher prices before turning over their
 companies to buyout funds, and escalating purchase prices are frequently the result.

Under this combination of circumstances, are there still bargains to be found? Here's the big
question that's nagging at me: Everyone is convinced that investing in listed U.S. equities at
today's prices will produce gross returns of 5-7% in the years ahead. If that's true, then
how can buyout funds go into that same market, pay substantial control premiums over
their target companies' stock prices, and generate double-digit annual returns after
deducting 2-4% per year in management fees, deal fees and incentive fees? Will there be
enough "value added" and financial engineering to bridge that gap?

Adding value - The buyout funds claim that they'll be able to create gains by making companies
U U

better. But many companies have been working hard for years to improve their efficiency and
profitability. There's always room for improvement, but it's a lot harder to make money this
way than by buying something cheap and selling it at a fair price. As in everything else, the
best managers will add substantial value, but if it was easy enough for everyone to do it, it
probably would have been done already.

Financial engineering - Between the two, I'd rather bet on fundamental improvement than
U U

smoke and mirrors. Withdrawing equity in order to leverage up the IRR doesn't add any value.
It couldn't be done in the stingier debt market of five years ago, and it may not be doable five
years from now if a business slowdown shows lenders its folly. Rising interest rates would be a
negative, and factoring in a more restrictive capital market would ring the bell on radical
financial engineering for a while.

Selling dear - Of course, you can always hope to sell at valuation multiples higher than you
U U

paid, but it's not reasonable to count on being able to do so all the time. Purchase multiples
below the historic norms could buttress such an expectation, but we're not there now. Today's
valuation multiples are being supported by low interest rates (prices of financial instruments rise
as demanded yields decline, and vice versa), and higher interest rates would be expected to
reduce sale prices for companies. And as the subject companies get bigger and bigger, the
number of possible buyers shrinks. For the $30 billion companies that are being talked about
today, the stock market may be the only exit, and that's something that can't be counted on year-
in and year-out.

So in contrast to the description of the golden days of buyouts on the previous page, today we
have:

 A buyout phenomenon that everyone's aware of and eager to play.
 A stock market that can't be described as cheap.
 Heavy competition to buy target companies.
 Dependence on financial engineering based on low interest rates and generous capital
 markets that may not stay that way forever.

We also see companies being sold from one buyout fund to another. What does that imply? In
most transactions, one party's right and the other's wrong. Generally, the buyer can't be getting
a bargain unless the seller is accepting less than he should. And shouldn't the seller know the
company best (and be expected to have made the available improvements)? So are the selling
buyout funds being generous? Are buyers overpaying? Or are the transactions motivated by a
desire to lock in incentive fees and generate further deal fees? If there is a free lunch, where's it
coming from? I'll leave those questions to you.

Buyout prices have been rising as a multiple of company earnings, and companies are being
bought with greater proportions of debt in an attempt to squeeze out higher returns on the buyout
firms' equity. As companies become more highly geared, the outcomes become more dependent
on a favorable environment. As they say in Las Vegas, "The more you bet, the more you win
when you win." But, simply put, when you increase leverage, the probability of getting into
a jam increases and the consequences of that jam worsen. Certainly this is not a cautious,
capital-starved environment for buyouts in which people have girded for tough times.

I have to admit it: if I could push the fast-forward button and see how a movie ends, it would be
this one. Like most "silver bullets," I think buyouts will fail to live up to the highest
expectations of those who're making it the darling of the investment world today.

I find the outlook for funds in the "big buyout" category particularly intriguing. Certainly the
managers spin a convincing tale: Because there are so few buyers capable of tackling the biggest
transactions, the competition to buy will be limited and transaction prices will be kept low. The
few big funds will tend to join forces in "club deals," further precluding bidding wars. And,
based on the supposed correlation between corporate bigness and inefficiency, it's claimed that
vast gains will be wrought from streamlining the acquired companies. We'll see.

How About Real Estate?
U

The other day, I was privileged to hike with a friend who I consider one of the very best value-
added real estate investors, Dean Adler of Lubert-Adler. I thought I was listening to a tape of my
worrisome self. Dean told a tale that I found scary - even though I don't stand to lose a penny if
his warnings hold true. Here's what he says is going on in the real estate arena:

As in other parts of the world of investment and finance, the ability to borrow is what's keeping
the wheels turning. And the ability to borrow for real estate investments is under the control of a
group of people called appraisers.

Dean's firm spends months performing in-depth analysis on the properties it owns and wants to
finance, and on those it wishes to buy. Then it takes the data to lenders . . . who don't care. All
that matters, they say, is what the appraiser thinks. If the appraiser says your property is worth
100, you can borrow 80. But if he says it's worth 50, you can only borrow 40.

Interestingly, the data generated by Lubert-Adler through months of analysis is dismissed by the
lender, but the opinion of the appraiser - who spends perhaps a week or two looking at the
property - is accepted unquestioningly. But - I have to say it - if the appraiser was as good as
Dean at putting values on property, wouldn't he be a leading real estate investor rather than an
appraiser?

The real estate story has other negative aspects. The first is that whereas I posit being able to
borrow 80% of appraised value, it has become possible to borrow more than 100%, as lenders
will finance not just the purchase price, but development and other expenses as well. In "Field
of Dreams," they said "If you build it, they will come." In real estate, it's more like, "If you'll
lend them money, they will buy or build." Just imagine what goes through the heads of real
estate dreamers when the capital markets allow them to take risks with other people's money.

Lastly, Dean pointed to construction loans. These short-term (and, in today's market, low-rate)
loans bear the substantial risks associated with delays, cost overruns and the like. And yet they
are being made by hedge funds that lack real estate expertise, experience and infrastructure.

If having a sense for the behavior going on around us can be highly instructive, as I feel it
can, then these observations from the real estate industry should be cautionary. As I often
quote Warren Buffett as saying, "The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the
greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs." Dean Adler's description
of the state of affairs in real estate doesn't suggest there's a lot of prudence out there,
meaning it's time for us to apply our own.

Give Me Structure
U

Ten years ago, we would raise $100 from a client and use it to buy $100 worth of high yield
bonds. We still do it that way, but in many quarters, that $100 is used as the equity for a
structured investment vehicle, such as a CDO, CBO or CLO, in which it supports the purchase of
$1,000 worth of (management fee-generating) bonds.

Collateralized Debt Obligations, Bond Obligations and Loan Obligations are entities that collect
capital from investors and lenders with which to construct portfolios of the relevant instruments.
The capital structure of the entity is tiered, so that the providers of capital have varying priorities
in terms of being repaid and participating in losses.

The senior-most lender enjoys security from the entire portfolio, and because his loan is thus
heavily over-secured and highly rated, he demands only a low rate of return. The second-most-
senior loan is a bit less well secured and less highly rated, and thus the rate demanded on his debt
is a bit higher, and so forth. Because the interest rates promised to the senior lenders are below
the average coupon on the portfolio, there should be a lot of cash left over for the junior lenders
and the equity investors - if things go well. But the equity is also in the first-loss position, so it's
truly a make-it-or-break-it proposition.

Vast sums have been raised for this "silver-bullet" solution to the problems of allocating risk,
leveraging returns and putting money to work. Clearly, the key to seeing all this work out lies in
enough credit expertise being present for risks to be controlled and defaults minimized. But
today the necessary ingredient for the establishment of these structured vehicles isn't credit
expertise, but the ability to structure the entity so as to win high-enough ratings on the senior
tranches to attract capital and permit a lot of leverage. This distinction is highly significant. In a
clear analogue to real estate appraisers, the people controlling the all-important credit spigot are
the financial structurers assembling the entities and the CDO analysts at the credit rating
agencies.

In a June 2 article entitled "Structured Complacency," the often-brilliant "Grant's Interest Rate
Observer" went into great (and, as usual, critical) detail on this phenomenon. As to the
popularity of structured vehicles, it wrote, "Credit markets are sanguine. Structured credit is
proliferating. Could the first fact be related to the second?" And as a key part of this trend,
it says, "Financial engineering is displacing credit analysis." What's the difference?
"Financial engineering is the science of structuring cash flows; credit analysis is the art of
getting paid."

Why the declining interest in credit analysis? Grant's advances the thesis that it is linked to
disintermediation, in which many lenders no longer hold on to the loans they make, but more
often syndicate or sell them onward to other providers of capital. Holding the keys in this
process are the risk manager who structures the entity based on statistical likelihoods and the
rating agency that applies the stamp of approval for buyers lacking direct knowledge of the
underlying instruments and the ability to understand the structure. Grant's quotes the IMF's
2006 Global Financial Stability Report:

 Not surprisingly, the development of structured credit markets has coincided with
 the increasing involvement of people with advanced financial engineering skills
 required to measure and manage these often complex risks. In fact, for many
 market participants, the application of such skills may have become more
 important than fundamental credit analysis. . . .

 Discussions with market participants raised questions as to whether the increased
 focus on structuring skills, relative to "credit" analysis, may itself present a
 concern.

The structurers are "risk managers." They assemble mathematical models that extrapolate
historic default rates and recovery rates (which may or may not have relevance in today's
environment). They look at probabilities, expected values and correlations. But they count
heavily on the statistical properties of the universe as it has been and may know rather little
about the actual assets contained in the portfolios. Of course, this sort of reliance on
statistically derived expectations was behind the undoing of Long Term Capital
Management in 1998 - of which so little seems to be remembered.

Grant's describes an interview with a junior analyst at a rating agency whose job it is to monitor
the health of a large number of CDOs each day, plugging numbers into an Excel spreadsheet.
According to Grant's, "he doubts that many people really understand what these structures own,
how their assets are correlated, or what might happen to them in the liquidation portion of a
credit cycle." To wrap up, Grant's quotes Michael Lewitt of Harch Capital Manager, a manager
of bank loans:

 . . . having a credit market priced on a non-credit basis - meaning priced off
 quantitative and arbitrage bases, and not on credit fundamentals - is not a healthy
 thing.

Interestingly in this connection, Wachovia Structured Products reports that as of April, of the 47
Collateralized Loan Obligations that had gone full cycle, 30 generated positive returns for their
equity. Put the other way around 17, or 36%, had lost money. I doubt that was the expectation
on which they were sold. And that in relatively good times.

My favorite investment adage warns about the things "the fool does in the end." Clearly,
turning over the administration of credit to appraisers, raters and structurers who know
relatively little about the underlying assets they're dealing with - and who are hired hands
without their own capital at risk - signals a dangerous late stage of the inevitable cycle.

It's Time to Hedge
U

Given the laxness, euphoria and credulousness that I detect in the market for money today,
it's time for caution. Where better to find it than in funds that hedge?

Well, of course, today the term "hedge fund" has nothing to do with hedging and
everything to do with incentive fees. In no way does that label connote risk control. And
whereas the shortcomings of the structured entities described above go along with the activities
fitting their charter, most hedge funds have unlimited charters and can roam free in search of
return. Here are a few recent trends:

 Hedge funds are making "second lien loans" in large numbers. In some cases, however,
 there are no assets left (after the claims of first lien loans) to have a lien against. They may

 or may not be made by people who have previously been lenders. Those people may or may
 not possess workout experience. And it's an open question how hedge funds holding large
 portfolios of small loans will behave when companies get into financial hot water. Lately
 I've heard mention that hedge funds might be making these loans to gain control of
 companies that default. But it isn't clear to me how appreciation will routinely be wrung
 from loans that are made at par and subsequently become non-performing.

 Since I moved to Los Angeles in 1980, my friends in "The Industry" have been unanimous in
 one piece of advice: never invest in movies. Yet The Wall Street Journal of April 29 carried
 a story headlined, "Defying the Odds, Hedge Funds Bet Billions on Movies."

 For decades, movie studios have gladly accepted millions of dollars from a group
 of investors collectively dismissed as "dumb money": deep-pocketed dentists, oil
 tycoons and other wealthy individuals eager for a piece of the glamorous but
 high-risk game of film production. But the biggest influx of money in Hollywood
 these days is coming from sharks, not suckers: hedge funds, private equity funds
 and investment banks.

 Take the example of "Poseidon," which was co-financed by hedge fund-backed Virtual
 Studios. It has brought in gross revenues of $180 million worldwide since May against its
 production budget of $160 million, meaning that after the deduction of at least half the
 revenues for distribution charges, advertising costs and exhibitors' fees, it's still a big loser.

 If there's one thing I've never claimed to understand, it's how you put a price on a highly
 improbable disaster. Thus I have a lot of respect for anyone who can do a consistently
 superior job of underwriting catastrophe insurance against earthquakes, hurricanes and
 terrorist events. Is the right premium for insuring a Caribbean hotel against hurricanes $1
 million or $5 million, given that the loss may be zero or $100 million? The difficulty of
 setting these premiums isn't keeping hedge funds from filling the gap in the "cat insurance"
 market.

 Along similar lines as catastrophe insurance, hedge funds are among the leading writers of
 Credit Default Swaps, the equivalent of issuing insurance against bond defaults. Hedge
 funds find it attractive to write this coverage for multi-year periods, perhaps in part because
 the premiums are taken into earnings each year, adding to returns and giving rise to incentive
 fees, while the defaults are likely to come later. As in any form of risk transfer, the
 ultimate profitability of this proposition will depend on how well the insurers know the
 risks and on what they're able to charge in terms of premiums. When lots of hedge
 funds are eager to sell CDS, however, premiums are driven down, and they can easily prove
 inadequate when defaults occur down the road.

 In recent months we've seen hedge funds take major losses (sometimes prompting them to
 close their doors) in natural gas trading and unhedged emerging market equities. I've read of
 hedge funds that trade in carbon dioxide emissions and one backing a fledgling fashion
 designer. And hedge funds are making the construction loans that Dean Adler discussed.

None of these activities is imprudent in and of itself. But they all involve substantial risk
and should be undertaken only by people possessing the essential edge: sufficient expertise
in the relevant field to be able to know when the opportunities are truly attractive.

U Why This Appetite for Risk?

In my memo on hedge funds of two years ago, I cited an insightful piece from Byron Wien of
Morgan Stanley called "In Praise of Hedge Fund Volatility." In it, he observed that many hedge
funds have become asset gatherers for whom the retention of assets and the receipt of
management fees have become more important than the achievement of high returns and the
earning of incentive fees. Thus low volatility has supplanted high return in the pantheon of
virtues.

In my view, this trend has reached beyond hedge funds to additional corners of the alternative
investing world. The concept of management fees sufficient to "pay the light bill" seems
obsolete. For example, even at just 11⁄4% per annum, a $15 billion buyout fund can generate
more than $1 billion of management fees over its lifetime. Add to that the "deal fees" and
"monitoring fees" commonly charged and it's easy to picture managers becoming wealthy
irrespective of performance. Indeed, the ancillary fees can be so massive that even where some
or all of them must be applied to offset management fees, managers can receive total fees that far
exceed the stated management fee percentage.

Of course, if a fund can generate $1 billion or more in fees, you as its manager would love to
perpetuate that flow. While you don't need high returns in order to get rich, it would be nice to
be able to repeat this process, so returns should be good enough to permit further funds to be
raised. But the notion of managers who are entirely dependent on high returns for the
achievement of their financial dreams may to some extent have become a thing of the past.

So what's the new paradigm?

 First, raise a lot of money.
 Second, try for a rate of return that clients will find acceptable.
 Third, don't take enough risk to possibly preclude an encore.
 Fourth, invest as fast as is prudently possible, so that another fund can be raised while
 the market remains accommodating.

I believe this last point may be part of the reason for managers' ever-growing willingness to
invest in large transactions and afield from the tried-and-true. In view of today's incentive
structure for managers, speed and size can count for more than investment excellence. Some
managers will sell out knowingly, even proactively. Others may be influenced more insidiously.
And some will be egged on by clients emphasizing their desire to invest large amounts of money
with low volatility and downplaying the need for high returns. Managers who do not want to be
so affected (and their clients) must strongly resist this trend. Recognizing it is the first step in
doing so.

 * * *

It doesn't give me pleasure to talk about an environment in which risk aversion is in short
supply, risk premiums are skimpy and danger lurks. Or in which there's a new paradigm capable
of contributing to a misalignment of interests between investors and their managers.

But it is what it is. Take a look at the lists of elements on pages 2, 3 (top), 6 and 11 and tell me
which ones you think aren't described accurately. If you agree that the investment world of
today is captured in those lists, then the prescription is unambiguous: it's time for caution
and risk control.

The workings of free capital markets require that in order to overcome investors' innate
aversion to risk, seemingly riskier investments must offer the possibility of higher returns
providing "risk premiums." But when risk aversion is at cyclical lows, risk premiums
needn't be generous; people will invest anyway. Too many people trying to dine at the buffet
simultaneously can lead to a disorderly process and skimpy portions. I recommend that you look
twice at the cost of admission and - if you do decide to partake - proceed carefully.

For the last few years, my mantra has been "special niches, special people." By the "special
people" part I mean it's important to find managers who possess the skills required to safely
pursue return in high-priced markets. It's at least as important in the current environment,
however, that they also can be counted on to resist the conditions described above in the interest
of serving their clients.


Memo: Pigweed.

At Citibank back in the '70s, Chief Investment Officer Peter Vermilye placed a lot of emphasis
on building team spirit. His tools included skits at our annual staff outings, and he never
hesitated to participate in costume. My favorite was his portrayal of Johnny Carson's savant,
"Carnac the Magnificent." He would hold a sealed envelope to his forehead and intone
"Schlum-bair-zhjay," as the French pronounce the oil service company's name. Upon opening
the envelope, he would read, "What they call it at $75." Holding up the next envelope, he'd say
"Slum-burger." The explanation inside: "What they call it at $15."

In other words, investors love things as long as they're riding high but lose all respect when
they're brought low. It doesn't take long to become discredited in the investment world. And so
it is for Amaranth Advisors, which now might be relabeled "pigweed" - another word for the
plant that gave the fund its name.

For those who've been incommunicado over the last few months, Amaranth is a hedge fund that
was formed in 2000. In the beginning it stressed relatively safe strategies like convertible
arbitrage. But more recently it ventured into other things and in 2004 hired a young man named
Brian Hunter to engage in energy trading, leading to the recent events. On September 18, it
announced that it had lost 40% of its $9.5 billion of total capital on natural gas trading, a
percentage that was revised upward to 65% over the next few days. The fund sold off its energy
trading book, Brian Hunter departed, and Amaranth threw in the towel and is liquidating.

Now that Amaranth's collapse has earned it a place on the list of investment disasters, we should
consider the lessons that can be learned from it. I'll try to provide some useful insights regarding
Amaranth, as usual without claiming to be an expert on the subject.

You Bet!
U

As I read about Amaranth, one thing stood out: the repeated use of the words "trade" and,
especially, "bet." Nothing about "invest" or "own." And certainly no reference to "value." The
pattern really is striking.

Of course, part of this change in attitude could be attributable to the defrocking described above.
Six months ago, the articles might have described Amaranth as an astute energy investor, rather
than the reckless gambler it's considered today. But certainly the new nomenclature is
everywhere, and I find it appropriate.

What's the distinction? Investors want to own things for the long run, under the belief they'll
grow and strengthen over time (or that today's values will come to be better appreciated).

Traders buy and sell, usually in short order, to take advantage of momentary phenomena. I
usually think of them as betting on the direction of the next price move. Certainly we can say
their timeframe is hours or days, or maybe weeks, but rarely months and never years.

And what is a "bet"? That's one of those words we all know the meaning of but would be hard-
pressed to define without using the synonym "wager" or the word "bet" itself. I consulted The
Random House Dictionary of the English Language and found a very useful definition: a bet is
"a pledge of a forfeit risked on some uncertain outcome." In other words, you attempt to profit
from an uncertain event, and if it doesn't go as you hope, you forfeit something of value. Well
then, Amaranth certainly was a bettor.

One question: If it's so obvious today that Amaranth was "betting," were people equally aware
of that fact a few months ago? I don't think so. Gains are often presumed to be the result of
carefully considered investments, while it's usually losing ventures that are described as
having been bets.

U What Was Their Game?

Amaranth's energy trading operation was in business to bet (there I go!) on short-term
movements in energy prices. But it didn't base its activities on saying "we want to own natural
gas" or "we want to be short." That would be risky.

Instead, it said things like this: "The price of natural gas is always higher in the winter than in the
summer, as is proper, because cold weather causes the demand for gas to increase. But right
now, we think the price discrepancy is wider than it should be: January gas is too high relative to
July gas. So we'll short January gas and buy an equal amount of July gas." Under this approach,
there's no net exposure to the overall direction of gas prices, just a bet (if you will) on the
wideness of the spread. The fund won't gain if the price of gas rises or lose if it falls. Instead,
it'll gain if the spread narrows in a reversion to the mean, or it'll lose if the spread anomalously
widens further.

This is a true hedged position: an arbitrage. I define arbitrage as taking largely offsetting
positions in the same or closely related assets exhibiting a price discrepancy, with the goal
of profiting, with very little risk, when the mispricing corrects. Its aim is to profit from the
movement of asset prices relative to each other (the relationship between which usually can be
counted on to stay within a normal range), not from the movement of the price of a single asset
(which can behave any way at all in the short run). This is a very valid approach for a hedge
fund to take. It epitomizes hedging, something that most hedge funds now seem to engage in
infrequently or not at all.

So where did Amaranth's risk - and the possibility of catastrophic loss - come in? The answer's
simple: Positions that are low in risk can be rendered quite risky with the help of leverage.

Back in ancient history (1998), a fixed income hedge fund called Long-Term Capital
Management pursued arbitrage transactions like Amaranth's (on a much more diversified basis
but with more leverage) and experienced a similar meltdown. I noted that earlier, when things

were going well, one of Long-Term's principals had said, "We're going around the world
scooping up nickels and dimes." There's great appeal to his notion of profiting from a large
number of small mispricings that others aren't smart enough to seize upon. But he had left off a
few key words from the end of his sentence: ". . . in front of a steamroller." The steamroller
enters the picture when so much leverage is employed that a fund can't survive a moment of
aberrant market behavior.

In a memo on hedge funds in October 2004, I mentioned that when there's a big increase in the
T

number of little fish attempting to live off each big fish's leavings (or in the number of hedge
funds relative to mainstream investors), the pickings become slimmer. Given the increased
efforts to exploit inefficiencies today and the fact that strong cash inflows and resultant high
prices have depressed prospective returns in many markets, managers are often resorting to
increased leverage in order to reach their return targets. But it's essential to remember that
leverage is the ultimate two-edged sword: it doesn't alter the probability of being right or
wrong; it just magnifies the consequences of both.

TU The Perils of Diversification

The Amaranth saga demonstrates that the riskiness of a portfolio is not just a function of the
T

fundamental nature of its holdings, but also of things like concentration and leverage. I often say
there is no investment so good that it can't be ruined by too-high an entry price. There's also no
investment so safe that can't be rendered risky by buying too much of it with borrowed
money.

Diversification has long been considered a pillar of conservative investing. It's a simple
T

concept: "Don't put all your eggs in one basket." Spreading your capital among a number of
assets or strategies reduces the likelihood of a disaster.

In the 1960s, Bill Sharpe pointed out that adding in a risky but uncorrelated asset can reduce a
T

portfolio's overall riskiness. It has become accepted wisdom that overall risk can be reduced
(and return increased) by adding alternative investments to a portfolio of stocks and bonds.

But people don't always take note of a dangerous outgrowth of these dicta: that diversifying
T

into uncorrelated assets with borrowed money can increase, not reduce, the risk of the
portfolio.

Let's say you have $100 invested in U.S. stocks. You realize how undiversified your portfolio
T

is, and that a market crash can bring a substantial loss. So you sell off $75 worth of stocks and
put $25 each into emerging market stocks, high yield bonds and natural gas futures. Now your
portfolio is invested equally in four asset classes rather than one and thus probably safer.

But what if, instead, you hold onto your $100 worth of U.S. stocks and borrow another $300,
T

investing $100 in each of those three new asset classes. You're again invested equally in four
asset classes. Equally diversified but much less safe. That's because leverage has magnified
the sensitivity of your portfolio to market movements.

A crash that wipes out one of the four asset classes in the diversified $100 portfolio will reduce
T

your net worth by 25%. But that same crash, when experienced in the leveraged and equally
diversified $400 portfolio, will eliminate your entire net worth. So investors should always
consider the combined effect of diversification and leverage. Amaranth was much safer when it
was all in convertible arbitrage than after it increased its leverage in order to diversify into
energy trading. Diversification is a good thing, but a lot depends on how you finance it.

"Multi-strategy" is one of today's hot buzz words. But as Orin Kramer puts it (see page 12 for
T

who he is), "Amaranth is a reminder that a multi-strategy structure is not a proxy for risk
diversification." That is, I think, multi-strategy + risk control = protective diversification, while
multi-strategy + leverage = more ways to lose.

U Generating Alpha

I want to say up front that I have absolutely no idea how one dependably achieves above average
profits from trading or investing in commodities, precious metals or currencies. That's not to say
it can't be done. There are people who've gotten very rich that way, managing both their own
money and that of others.

Of course, the efficient market crowd would say someone will get rich doing everything - even
playing the lottery or flipping coins - simply because the tails of a probability distribution
usually aren't entirely unpopulated. But who it is that gets rich that way may be purely
random. If that's the case, the mere existence of a few winners doesn't in itself prove that
something is an "alpha" activity in which hard work and skill will produce consistent
performance, or that large numbers of people can pull it off.

I believe firmly that the markets for commodities and currencies are generally efficient. That
means a lot of highly motivated people participate; many are intelligent and computer-literate;
they all have access to similar information; and they're willing to take either side of most
propositions. These people cause all of the available information to instantly be incorporated in
the market price of each asset, such that the market price always reflects the consensus view of
the significance of the available information. As a further consequence, few people if any can
dependably identify and profit from instances when the market price is wrong. That, in turn,
makes it difficult to consistently achieve high absolute returns or perform better than
others. That difficulty constitutes the ultimate proof that a market's efficient.

Take currencies for example. Exchange rates exist so that currencies will be valued fairly
relative to each other in view of countries' differing growth rates, interest rates, inflation
prospects and fiscal and trade deficits, etc. Further, exchange rates change as the outlook for
these things changes. Their current status is widely known, and predicting changes is something
few people can do right more often than others. Thus it seems unlikely that some people will be
able to regularly generate higher returns than others.

If it's so hard to value currencies, commodities and precious metals, why do I think we can
invest intelligently in equities, corporate debt and whole companies? It's because these things
generate income, and an expected stream of future income can be translated into a current value.

But how do you determine the intrinsic value of a Euro, a bar of gold or a barrel of oil? You can
talk about the positives and the negatives associated with these goods. But how do you convert
those things into a price?

For example, the factors that argue for high oil prices are obvious. "The supply is finite."
"We're using it up at an accelerating rate." "Environmental issues in the U.S. will constrain the
domestic supply." "Much of the foreign supply is in the hands of hostile or unpredictable
governments: Iran's a worry, Venezuela is turning anti-American, and Saudi Arabia is subject to
instability." Sure they make oil a valuable good, but how valuable? How do we know the
current price doesn't adequately reflect these things already? What's the right price for it?
 U U

We had a particularly instructive lesson in July. The price of oil had been strong, and the
outlook was for more of the same. With the price at $77 per barrel, it was reported that the
Alaskan pipeline had to be shut down to repair damage. With domestic shipments restricted, the
price had to rise; oil had to be a buy. But the $77 price at which oil traded on the day of the
 U U

announcement hasn't been seen since. Within just four months, the price of oil fell to $55 (down
28%) - and the factors listed above were just as true at $55 as they were at $77. Without the
ability to reliably convert fundamentals into prices, I don't see how one can achieve consistently
superior risk-adjusted gains.

Above average investment performance (in any market) has to be the result of either
unusual insight into values or the intersection of risk taking and luck. It's hard to tell the
difference between the two in the short run, but the truth always becomes clear in time,
because luck rarely holds up for long.

U The Short-Term Performance Trap

That leads me to Amaranth's experience in natural gas, and to the key lesson to be learned from
it. Is anyone capable of regularly generating skilled-based (as opposed to luck-based) returns at
an ultra-high level by trading natural gas? I don't know for sure, but I would think not.

I'm not saying no money can be made that way. But while the capital markets might permit one
to steadily earn 5-8% a year (or maybe even 8-10%) by committing capital to this activity,
returns in the teens should be infrequent, and returns above 20% probably should be
considered the result of extreme good fortune (and thus as having been just as likely to go
the other way). There are exceptions, but a good statistician can live with a few exceptions
without feeling they disprove the main point.

I think it's essential to realize that Amaranth's troubles in natural gas didn't start this
year, with the positions that didn't work. They started with the $1 billion in profits that
Hunter generated in 2005, which permitted Amaranth to report a return roughly double
that of the average hedge fund.

In the investment business, clients love high returns and hate low returns. That makes sense.
T

And when the market's up 10% and their manager is up 20%, clients are really happy. But that's
my pet peeve. Rarely does anyone say, "Whoa. That return's too high. How did it happen?

How much risk did my manager take in order to generate that?" No, in the investment world
few people find high returns worrisome.

Everyone talks about beta, (which I'm tempted to pronounce "bee-tah" now that I've spent six
T

weeks in London), but few people dwell on it when returns are soaring. Credulous investors
think the manager who generated 20% in an up-10% market contributed alpha of 10%. But
maybe he had zero alpha and a beta of 2 instead . . . or maybe negative alpha of 20% and a beta
of 4. Regardless, I almost never hear people talk about returns being so high that they're suspect.

According to Hillary Till of Premia Capital Management (in her report on Amaranth published
by France's EDHEC Business School), "Since May, investors knew [Amaranth's] energy
portfolio had typical up or down months of about 11%. . . . Therefore, it would not have been
unusual for the fund's energy trades to lose 24% in a single month. . . ." But nobody seemed to
care, since the energy book gained $2 billion in just the first four months of 2006. In other
words, Amaranth had enjoyed the up months. That certainly didn't imply that down months
weren't lurking. In fact, just the opposite.

Here's the most important thing: My wife Nancy often quotes a few lines from Rudyard
T

Kipling's poem, "If":

 If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster
 T

 And treat those two Impostors just the same; . . .
 T

 Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it,
 T

 And - which is more - you'll be a Man, my son!
 T

Likewise, short-term gains and short-term losses are potential impostors, as neither is
T

necessarily indicative of real investment ability (or the lack thereof).

Surprisingly good returns are often just the flip side of surprisingly bad returns. One year with a
T

great return can overstate the manager's skill and obscure the risk he took. Yet people are
surprised when that great year is followed by a terrible year. Investors invariably lose track of
the fact that they both can be impostors, and of the importance of digging deep to understand
what underlies them.

One gets the impression that no one at Amaranth asked the right question when Brian
T

Hunter shot the lights out in 2005: "How'd you do that?" Or if they asked, they were
satisfied with what turned out to be the wrong answer: skill, rather than leveraged aggression
combined with luck. They let him move to Calgary, and they gave him a large enough capital
and/or risk budget to enable him to bring down the firm.

But The Wall Street Journal of September 19 laid out how this came about. ". . . late last year,
T

the double-whammy of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita made Mr. Hunter a hero at Amaranth and a
minor legend on Wall Street, as he made $1 billion for Amaranth." Hunter liked to buy deep-
out-of-the-money options. While these things expire worthless most of the time, a major,
unexpected price move in the underlying asset can produce huge profits.

But does betting on a long shot and profiting from a freak occurrence make someone a
T

skilled investor, or just the "lucky idiot" that Nassim Nicholas Taleb describes in "Fooled
by Randomness"? Should that kind of performance inspire reverence or concern? Well,
Amaranth's 2005 gas profits produced awe, but anyone looking behind them should have been
worried. What would have happened, investors might have asked, if events had unfolded
differently? Taleb's "alternative histories" are always worthy of consideration (see below).

The events in the gas market that decimated Amaranth in 2006 may have been unforeseeable and
T

unprecedented. But those adjectives might apply just as well to the elements that made it
successful in 2005, and no one - especially not the fund's managers - seems to have mentioned
that fact at the time. When people profit from such things, it's considered all right and good, but
then when they reverse into losses, it comes as a shock. They're two sides of the same coin,
but investors have a really tough time keeping that in mind.

U What's Real?

To be able to attach the proper significance to short-run performance, it's essential that one
understand the idea of "alternative histories." I came across it in Taleb's book, which I consider
the bible on such topics.

This concept is related to Orin Kramer's description of past performance as "the interaction of
 T

particular historical and market conditions and the judgments and beliefs of managers during that
period." In other words, investment performance is what happens to a portfolio when
events unfold. People pay great heed to the resulting performance, but the questions they should
ask are, "Were the events that unfolded (and the other possibilities that didn't unfold) truly
within the ken of the portfolio manager? And what would the performance have been if other
events had occurred instead?" Those other events are Taleb's "alternative histories." How
about an example of the right way to view outcomes? Well, with the college football bowl
 T

season upon us, I'd like to discuss last year's championship game, something I've been musing
about for almost a year.

The University of Southern California football team was undefeated in the 2005 regular season.
It boasted two successive years' Heisman Trophy winners and many other great players. It won
its games in spectacular fashion and was widely touted as one of the best college football teams
of all time. In fact, in the week leading up to the championship game against the University of
Texas, ESPN ran daily segments that compared USC against a top team from the past, each time
stating that USC was better, and why.

When it came down to game time, however, Texas played very well and USC couldn't contain
their talented quarterback, Vince Young. With two minutes to go in the game, holding a slim
five-point lead, USC's coach, Pete Carroll, chose to "go for it" on fourth down, rather than punt
the ball downfield - undoubtedly out of concern that if Texas got the ball with two minutes left
on the clock, his team would be unable to keep them from scoring. USC failed to make a first
down, and Texas got the ball with good field position, scored a touchdown and won the game.

If USC had made the two yards they needed on that fourth down play, it's extremely likely they
would have won the game. And if they'd won the game, they doubtless would be described
today as the best college football team in history. But it didn't happen that way, and no one talks
anymore about their being the best, or even the second best. Now they're considered just another
great team. What this shows is how tenuous the connection can be between outcomes
(which most people take for reality) and the real, underlying reality. What do I mean by that
distinction?

Consider this: What's the probability that if USC had made the needed two yards - and today
was considered the best team ever - they really would be the best team ever? Certainly not
100%. And just as interestingly (or to me maybe more so), what's the probability that, even
though they didn't make the two yards, they actually are the best team that ever played?
Certainly not zero. But since USC lost that game, most people would find nonsensical a
suggestion that they're the best team in history. To contemplate that possibility, they would have
to consider an alternative history in which USC made those two yards.

Can the result of one play really decide the issue? That's the one thing we all can probably agree
shouldn't be the case. "Everyone knows" that the score of a game doesn't necessarily tell you
which is the better team. So then outcomes aren't necessarily indicative of reality, meaning that
alternative histories should be given significant weight. (I guess the ultimate step would be to
suggest that USC actually won the game, the score notwithstanding. That would be going too far
. . . although we often hear a losing team's fans say, "We won that game.")

While we're looking deeply into things, let's spend a minute on Pete Carroll's decision to go for
it on fourth down. Was he right or wrong? He has gone for it on fourth down many times in his
coaching career, and most of the time it worked. In fact, USC twice had run on fourth down
earlier in the championship game, making the needed yardage once and scoring a touchdown.
But on that final attempt they were unsuccessful. Does that mean Pete made a wrong decision?
Or was it a right decision that just happened not to work on that occasion? One of the first things
I learned at Wharton in 1963 was that you can't judge the correctness of a decision from the
outcome. This is another concept that many people find nonsensical. But good decisions fail to
work all the time - just as bad ones lead to success - simply because it's so hard to predict which
history will materialize.

It seems ridiculous for something as momentous as the label "best team ever" - and the
measure of a team's real worth over an entire season - to hinge on the outcome of one play
that took four seconds. Clearly that's a distortion, but no less of a distortion than many
people's response to short-term investment performance, both good and bad.

U King for a Day

In the current environment, there can be little ability to restrain a hot manager. According to
T

Amaranth's head of Human Resources until 2004, the CEO of the fund ". . . sought to centralize
oversight of traders and keep big discretionary trading authority on the fund's Greenwich trading
floor. After big gains in 2005, Mr. Hunter was allowed to trade from Calgary. 'To have a

relative newcomer . . . receive so much discretion is just shocking to me.' " (The Wall Street
Journal, September 20)

But today, if a hedge fund CEO tells a trader who's been generating great performance that he
T

can't have more capital, or take risky positions, or pursue the maximum imaginable incentive
fee, or move to Calgary, he'll lose him. There's always another employer who'll meet a hot
trader's demands. No, this isn't a time when discipline and risk control come easy.

In this climate, even an earlier dust-up at Deutsche Bank regarding Brian Hunter's gas trading
T

and bonus wasn't enough to keep him from becoming the linchpin of a $9.5 billion fund,
managing half its capital. And it wouldn't have deterred others from hiring him if he quit
because Amaranth had tried to restrain him.

A decade ago, if an employee who'd run up big profits in his first year asked for a huge bonus,
T

we'd say, "Come back after you've put together a few good years." But in today's climate, if a
hedge fund doesn't come up with an out-sized bonus after one good year, it's unlikely the
employee will stick around to give it a second. Thus Brian Hunter was paid $75 to $100
million in 2005, his first full year at Amaranth, arguably for betting right on the weather.

It doesn't take much to be venerated today. One or two good years make somebody a "top
T

trader." Three years can enable someone to raise a billion-dollar hedge fund. In fact, even after
the fall, The Wall Street Journal described Brian Hunter as an "experienced manager" . . . at 32.
Doesn't anyone think that before someone is elevated to the investment peerage, he or she should
have a record spanning more than a few years, and have been tested in down markets? I knew
the world had been turned on its head when I read on "dailyii.com" about Hedge Funds
Investment Management, a London fund of funds that will invest only with people who've been
in the business for 31⁄2 years or less.

TU Unlikely Things Happen

The EDHEC report mentioned above makes a number of interesting observations concerning
T

Amaranth's portfolio:

 As of June 2006, energy trades accounted for about half of Amaranth's capital and generated
 T

 75% of its profits.
 Amaranth had 6,700 energy positions, leveraged 4.5 to one, including open positions to buy
 T

 or sell tens of billions of dollars of commodities.
 Amaranth was responsible for a substantial portion of all of the gas trades that took place.
 T

 In the far-out months, in which fewer traders participate, "the fund's positions were indeed
 T

 massive."
 Many of Amaranth's trades probably had "physical-market participants" on the other side,
 T

 people who had taken positions to hedge risks intrinsic to their business. Because they would
 be unlikely to unwind their trades at Amaranth's convenience, exits were problematic.
 In view of all of the above, "the magnitude of Amaranth's energy position-taking was
 T

 inappropriate relative to its capital base."

Hillary Till describes Amaranth's loss as a 9-standard-deviation event (Long-Term Capital's is
T

estimated at "8-sigma"). By way of reference, 5 standard deviations include the central
99.99994% of a normal probability distribution. A 5-sigma event below that range should
 T

happen about three times in every ten million trials (thus a given daily occurrence should happen
once every 10,000 years). But it's amazing how often this kind of event seems to occur when
derivatives are combined with leverage.

Everyone speaks about preparing for "worst-case" outcomes, but invariably things can get even
T

worse. Statistical reassurance should be relied on only to a reasonable extent. Common sense
has to come into play as well.

TU Risk Management and Risk Managers

You know from my memo of February entitled "Risk" that I'm not a big fan of quantitative risk
T

management. It's often said of a man that "he knows the price of everything but the value of
nothing" - and it's not meant as a compliment. Likewise, I feel effective assessment of portfolio
risk is less likely to come from Ph.D. statisticians who lack intimate knowledge of the assets in
the portfolio than through wise judgments made subjectively by investors possessing "alpha."

In the memo on risk, I enumerated several criteria that should be present if modeling is to prove
T

effective. I also observed that most of them are lacking in the investment world. In an article in
the Financial Times of October 10, John Kay wrote of the risk that arises because of "uncertainty
about whether the model you have developed describes the world accurately." He concluded
that "mathematical modeling of risk can be an aid to sound judgment but never a complete
substitute." My first boss, George Egbert, Jr., Citibank's Director of Research in the 1960s,
used to say of economists, "They should be on tap but not on top." Reliance on risk modeling
should be similarly limited.

"What Brian is really good at is taking controlled and measured risk." Thus spoke Nick
T

Maounis, the CEO of Amaranth, less than a month before its collapse. He cited the more than a
dozen members of his risk management team who served as a check on his star gas trader, and he
said "spreads and options are of their very nature instruments for positions which are designed to
allow the user to capture upside with a much clearer understanding with respect to downside
exposure" (The Wall Street Journal of September 19 and 20). But in the end, outsized profit
potential without risk turned out to be a pipe dream as usual.

 Amaranth's systems didn't appear to measure correctly how much risk it faced
 T

 and what steps would limit losses effectively. The risk models employed by
 hedge funds employ historic data, but the natural gas markets have been more
 volatile this year than any year since 2001, making models less useful. They also
 might not predict how much selling of one's stakes to get out of a position can
 cause prices to fall.

 "It was a total failure of risk control to put your entire business at risk and not
 T

 seem to know it," says Marc Freed [of Lyster Watson & Co., an advisory firm that

 invests in hedge funds]. "They were more leveraged than they realized." (The
 Wall Street Journal, September 20)

After the fall, the Journal quotes Mr. Maounis as saying Amaranth's traders "were surprised not
T

only by adverse market moves that triggered the losses but also by the lack of ability to exit the
losing positions." That's it, right there: the word "surprise." It's one thing to make an
investment you know is risky and have it come out wrong. It's something entirely different to
make an investment that entails risk of which you're unaware.

Mr. Maounis and Amaranth's risk managers shouldn't have been surprised. They should have
T

been alerted by the volatility of the fund's energy results. According to Till, its LPs should have
been as well. "Investors would not have needed position-level transparency to realize that
Amaranth's energy trading was quite risky." But the evidence of that potential risk came
primarily in the form of outsized gains, and these are rarely recognized as the red flag they
are.

Amaranth's investors relied heavily on its vaunted risk management capability and on the
T

assurance that risk was under control. But the fund failed to survive its seventh year.
Quantitative risk managers can only opine on whether a disaster is likely or not. Even if they're
right about that, it's up to you to decide whether you're willing to bear the risk of an improbable
disaster. They do happen!

TU Classic Investment Mistakes

Hemlines go up and down. Ties go from wide to narrow and back again. There are only so
T

many ways in which things can vary. Likewise, there are only a few mistakes one can make in
investing, and people repeat them over and over. It seems Amaranth made several.

 Borrowing short to buy long (and illiquid). This cardinal sin is at the root of most great
 T

 investment debacles. A fund's capital should be as long-lived as its commitments. And no
 fund should promise more liquidity than is provided by its underlying assets. You can
 successfully invest in volatile assets if you're sure of being able to ride out a storm. But if
 you lack that certainty and face the possibility of withdrawals or margin calls, a little
 volatility can mean the end. In the case of Amaranth, just as had been true of Long-Term
 Capital Management and the big junk bond holders that were forced to sell out at the 1990
 lows, many of the losses would have turned back into profits if they had just been able to
 hold on through the crisis. That's why I always caution, "Never forget the six-foot-tall man
 who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average." It's not enough to be
 able to get through on average; you have to be able to survive life's low points.

 Confusing paper profits with real gains. The Wall Street Journal of September 20 points
 T

 out that Hunter was encouraged by the positive marks to market showing up in his
 statements, so much so that he added further to his positions. But he seems not to have asked
 whether the gains were real and realizable. The Journal also points out that Hunter was such
 a big buyer in thin markets that his buying often supported prices and created the very profits
 he found so encouraging. But if the profits were the product of his buying, and thus

 dependent on it for their continued existence, he clearly had no way to realize them. My
 father used to tell a joke about the guy who insisted that his hamster was worth thousands
 more than he had paid for it. "Then you should sell it," his friend urged. "Yeah," he
 responded, "but to whom?"

 Being seduced by loss limitation. Hunter is said to have liked buying deep-out-of-the-
 money options, and everyone knows that one great thing about buying options is that in
 exchange for a small option premium you receive the right to benefit from price movements
 on lots of assets. You can only lose 100% of the amount you put up . . . and in deep-out-of-
 the-money options people do just that all the time.

 Misjudging liquidity. People often ask me whether a given market is liquid or not. My
 answer is usually, "that depends on which side you're on." Markets are usually liquid in one
 direction or the other but not necessarily both. When everyone is selling, a buyer's liquidity
 is great, but a seller will find the going difficult. When sellers' urgency increases, they're
 likely to have to give on price in order to achieve the "immediacy" they crave (see my memo
 "Investment Miscellany," November 16, 2000). If their desire for immediacy is extreme, the
 bids they see might be absurdly low. Thus markets can't be counted on to accommodate a
 seller's need to realize fair value.

 Ignoring the impact of others. In small markets, everyone may know about your trades.
 That means they can copy them (making buying tough and adding to the crowd that will
 eventually jam the exits), and they can deny you fair prices if they know you have to sell.
 Aggressive traders, especially at hedge funds, don't wear kid gloves.

 Underestimating correlation. There's another old saying: "In times of crisis, all
 correlations go to one." It means that assets with no fundamental or economic connection
 can be caused by market conditions to move in lockstep. If a hedge fund experiences heavy
 withdrawals during a period of illiquidity, assets of various types may have to be dumped at
 once, and thus they can all decline together. Further, hidden fault lines in portfolios can
 produce unexpected co-movement. Let's say you're long sugar and gas, two unrelated
 commodities. Unusually warm weather can reduce the demand for gas for heating and also
 cause a record sugar crop (as happened this year). Thus the prices of seemingly unrelated
 goods can decline together. Intelligent diversification doesn't mean just owning different
 things; it means owning things that will respond differently to a given set of
 environmental factors. Thus it requires a thorough understanding of potential
 connections.

The case of Amaranth is highly and painfully instructive, and it bears out another of my favorite
expressions: Experience is what you got when you didn't get what you wanted.

 * * *

Orin Kramer manages the Kramer-Spellman hedge fund and, more famously, chairs the State of
New Jersey Investment Council, which oversees the state's $80 billion pension fund. He is

extremely knowledgeable concerning risk and return, herd behavior and the vicissitudes of
investing in an institutional setting. In a speech a few weeks ago, he made some excellent
points:

 My own view is that we exaggerate the utility of standard performance measures.
 T

 In general, past performance reflects the interaction of particular historical and
 market conditions and the judgments and beliefs of managers during that period.
 In particular, managers may consciously or unconsciously pursue strategies which
 assume the risk of low-frequency, high-severity outcomes. Strategies which can
 only be torpedoed by low-frequency events will mostly produce favorable
 outcomes; identifying the tail risk implicit in such strategies is an extraordinary
 challenge. The absence of the severe negative outcome is not, regrettably,
 proof that it cannot occur. (Emphasis added)

In other words, (1) short-term investment performance is not a helpful indicator of ability, (2)
T

good results can arise just because a manager chose a high-risk course and was bailed out by
events, and (3) that same course could just as easily have led to disaster . . . and certainly could
do so next time. However, it's rare for either managers or clients to recognize the unreliability
implicit in short-term results, especially when they're good.

Orin also notes that Amaranth "occurred when the skies were blue; the fund unraveled because a
T

small and volatile commodity behaved in an unpredicted fashion." This collapse didn't require
an adverse economic environment or a market crash. The combination of arrogance, failure to
understand and allow for risk, and a small adverse development can be enough to wreak havoc.
It can happen to anyone who doesn't spend the time and effort required to understand the
processes underlying his portfolio.