Memo: The Race to the Bottom.

Cheapening Money
 U

 If you make cars and want to sell more of them over the long term - that is, take
 permanent market share from your competitors - you'll try to make your product better.
 (You might cut your prices or increase your advertising, but neither of those will work for
 long if your cars are demonstrably inferior.) "Building a better mousetrap" should also
 be effective for sellers of toothpaste, computers, televisions, magazines, movies and
 dresses, or any other product that can be differentiated from its competitors. That's why
 - one way or the other - most sales pitches say, "Ours is better."

 However, there are products that can't be differentiated, and economists call them
 "commodities." These are generic goods like gold, West Texas crude oil, pork bellies,
 steel ingot, orange juice, electricity and telecommunications bandwidth. They're goods
 where no seller's offering is much different from any other. They tend to trade on price
 alone, and each buyer is likely to take the offering at the lowest delivered price.

 Thus, if you deal in a commodity and want to sell more of it, there's generally one way to
 do so: cut your price. It's futile to make claims for product superiority, and advertising is
 unlikely to alter buying habits. Thus in order to gain market share, you have to make
 your product cheaper than someone else's.

 It helps to think of money as a commodity just like those others. Everyone's money is
 pretty much the same. Yet institutions seeking to add to loan volume, and private
 equity funds and hedge funds seeking to increase their fees (see "The New Paradigm"),
 all want to move more of it. So if you want to place more money - that is, get people
 to go to you instead of your competitors for their financing - you have to make your
 money cheaper. As with the other commodities, low price is the most dependable route
 to increased market share.

 One way to lower the price for your money is by reducing the interest rate you charge on
 loans. A slightly more subtle way is to agree to a higher price for the thing you're
 buying, such as by paying a higher p/e ratio for a common stock or a higher total
 transaction price when you're buying a company. Any way you slice it, you're settling
 for a lower prospective return. But there are other ways to cheapen your money,
 and they're the primary subject of this memo.

 Congratulations!
 U

 What else is there - besides return - that you can accept less of in order to
 accelerate the pace at which you put out your money? The answer is simple: safety.
 So a provider of capital who wants to increase market share - that is, make a bigger
 percentage of the loans or investments that are made - will accept risks that others won't.
 That's another way to get the deal instead of having it go to someone else.

 I sometimes buy at auctions. When the bidding's over, the auction house personnel come
 up and say "congratulations." I usually say, "On what? All I did is pay more than
 anyone else would pay." That's how auctions work - most market mechanisms, in fact:
 the deal goes to the person who'll pay the most for the goods (or, looked at
 conversely, get the least for his money). The capital markets are no different.

 Of course, when the subject is price, it's obvious that the person who's willing to pay the
 most wins the auction. It's a little more subtle that, when it comes to quality and safety,
 the person who'll accept the least is likely to be congratulated as the "winner." Winner in
 quotes, that is, because in putting out capital, the person who gets the deal is likely to
 be a loser if he accepts a level of safety that turns out to be inadequate.

 That leads me to one of my pet peeves. The "industry rags" in private equity are devoted
 almost exclusively to reporting who bought what company, with accounts of how
 competitors were outbid and innovative financing arranged. But the articles should focus
 instead on whether the price was right, and the champagne should probably be kept on ice
 until the company has been sold at a profit. Buying shows who was the highest bidder,
 not necessarily the smartest bidder.

 (Let me hasten to point out here that while I generalize as usual for simplicity and effect,
 there are always exceptions. Oaktree routinely gains admittance to deals because we
 provide prompt commitments, certainty of closure, assistance in structuring and/or the
 promise of constructive behavior should problems arise. But much of the time -
 especially today - deals go to the capital providers who'll pay the most and/or accept the
 least. We try to gain access to deals by adding value, not by paying the most.)

 The Auction's On
 U

 While the last few years have given me many opportunities to marvel at excesses in the
 capital markets, in this case the one that elicited my battle cry - "that calls for a memo" -
 hit the newspapers in England during my last stay. As the Financial Times reported on
 November 1,

 Abbey, the UK's second-largest home loans provider, has raised the
 standard amount it will lend homebuyers to five times either their single or
 joint salaries, eclipsing the traditional borrowing levels of around three
 and a half times salary. It followed last week's decision by Bank of

 Ireland Mortgages and Bristol and West to increase standard salary
 multiples from four to 4.5 times.

 In other words, there had been a traditional rule of thumb saying that borrowers can
 safely handle mortgages with a face amount equal to three-plus times their salaries. But
 now they can have five times - roughly 50% more. What inference should be drawn?
 There are at least four possibilities:

 1. The old standard was too conservative, and the new one's right;
 2. Conditions have changed, such that the new standard is as conservative for today as
 the old one was for its times;
 3. It's reasonable for mortgage lenders to accept higher default experience, and thus
 lower net returns, because their cost of capital has declined; or
 4. The rush to place money has caused a supplier of capital to loosen its standards.

 Now, I am no expert on the UK mortgage market, and it's my intention in this memo to
 comment on general capital market trends, not any one sector. Further, it's certainly true
 that today's lower interest rates mean a given salary can support a bigger mortgage (and
 that's likely to hold true so long as (1) borrowers keep their jobs and (2) their mortgages
 carry fixed rates). But if you think Abbey's reason for taking this step might be a logical
 one like that, the question to ask is "why now?"

 Logical reasons and sober decision making might be involved here. But so might
 competition to put out money and the usual late-stage belief that "it's different this
 time." Lenders and investors invariably depart from time-honored disciplines when
 cycles move to extremes, out of a belief that current conditions are different from
 those that prevailed in the past, when those disciplines were appropriate. And just
 as invariably, they're shown that cycles repeat and nothing really changes.

 What did we see in the U.S. mortgage market as home prices rose and interest rates
 declined? First, low teaser rates. Then higher loan-to-value ratios. Then 100%
 financing. Then low-amortization loans. Then no-amortization loans. Then loans
 requiring no documentation of employment or credit history. These things made it
 possible for more buyers to stretch for more expensive homes, but at the same time they
 made mortgages riskier for lenders. And these developments took place when home
 prices were at sky-high and interest rates were at multi-generation lows. In the end,
 buyers took out the biggest mortgage possible given their incomes and prevailing interest
 rates. Such mortgages would land them in the houses of their dreams . . . and leave them
 there for as long as conditions didn't deteriorate, which they invariably do.

 Do you remember the game Bid-a-Note from the TV show "Name that Tune"?
 Contestant x said, "I can name that tune in six notes." Then contestant y said, "I can
 name that tune in five notes." Then contestant x said, "I can name that tune in four
 notes." The contestant who eventually got the chance to guess the name of the tune was
 the one who was willing to accept the riskiest proposition - to try on the basis of the least
 information.

 So the Bank of Ireland entered the competition to lend money for home purchases and
 said, "I'll lend four and a half times the borrower's salary." And Abbey said, "I'll lend
 five times." The so-called winner in this auction is the one who'll put out the most
 money with the least safety. Whether that's really winning or losing will become clear
 when the cycle turns, as it did in the U.S. last year. But certainly there's a race to the
 bottom going on . . . a contest to become the institution that'll make loans with the
 slightest margin for error.

 By the way, were the people who made those U.S. mortgages loans big losers? Defaults
 spiked last year, but often the originators of the loans had escaped by selling the loans
 onward to others, some of whom packaged them into mortgage-backed securities or
 CLOs and sold them once again or borrowed against them on a non-recourse basis. Since
 many of the people who make loans today flip them quickly, an aspect of "moral hazard"
 has entered the equation, in which decision makers are insulated from the consequences
 of their actions.

 Any way you slice it, standards for mortgage loans have dropped in recent years,
 and risk has increased. Logic-based? Perhaps. Cycle-induced (and exacerbated)?
 I'd say so. The FT quoted John Paul Crutchley, a banking analyst at Merrill Lynch, as
 saying "When Abbey are lending a multiple of five times salary, that could be perfectly
 sensible - or it could be tremendously risky." Certainly mortgage lending was made
 riskier. We'll see in a few years whether that was intelligent risk taking or excessive
 competitive ardor.

 Everyone's Got a Favorite
 U

 A lot of Oaktree's activities center around buying bonds, making loans and trying to
 profit when debt that others hold goes bad. So who better than my colleagues for me to
 turn to for examples of mistakes in the making? I asked for examples of the race to the
 bottom, and the response was immediate and substantial. I won't embarrass individual
 issuers or borrowers by describing specific transactions; the names have been omitted to
 protect the guilty. But here are some of the themes our people told me about:

 Hot potato - There's big money today in buying companies and then having them
 U U

 borrow money with which to pay you a dividend, even if doing so reduces the
 companies' creditworthiness. Just a few years back, companies generally wouldn't
 have been able to issue bonds or loans where the projected use of proceeds was
 dividends to their equity owners. But since people are so eager to invest today,
 they'll lend to companies where much or all of the equity paid in - or maybe more
 than all of it - will be dividended out. They're doing so on the expectation that
 they'll be able to exit before risk turns into loss. "If things take a turn for the
 worse, I'll get out" is a refrain that accompanies most market excesses (tech
 stocks in 1999 and condos in 2005 come immediately to mind), but rarely does it
 turn out that way.

 Heads We Win/Tails You Lose - Part of being willing to pay more for less relates to
 U U

 the balance between upside potential, downside risk and who gets what. SPACs - or
 Special Purpose Acquisition Companies, also known as "blank check companies" or
 "blind pools" - seem like a good example of miscalibration. People put equity capital
 into a SPAC with no certainty as to what will be done with it. The SPAC's
 "portfolio" is likely to consist of just one company. And the investors will get no
 return on their money as long as it remains unspent, which can be up to 18 or 24
 months. The sponsor, on the other hand, gets 20% of any profits, as there's no
 preferred return. It does so through warrants, which it can liquidate even without
 having sold the acquired company. And if it can't make an acquisition, it just returns
 the money without penalty - usually reduced by banking and other fees.

 Not My Problem - One of the stories I was told pertained to a company whose
 U U

 accounting problems had prevented it from issuing audited financial statements for a
 relatively long period of time. After the company went bankrupt, we were
 determined to learn more about its accounting issues than anyone else and then
 intelligently make a debtor-in-possession loan, through which we might gain
 ownership of the company. But before we could make the loan, someone else made
 the company a better offer: more leverage on cheaper terms, with no provision for
 accounting due diligence. When later we were able to ask about why we had lost out,
 we were told that one reason the other lender was able to be more aggressive than
 Oaktree was the fact that it had "pre-syndicated" most of the loan to hedge funds.
 This was accomplished in the absence of financial statements or accounting due
 diligence, but with validation from the high trading price of the company's public
 securities (which was being set, again, in a financial-statement void). Okay, so the
 lender's risk was limited. But how about the funds that bought the loan?

 Complexity Outruns Analysis - Wall Street is incredibly inventive. It's staffed by
 U U

 bright people, pursuing massive incentives, trying to out-think their competitors in
 order to win assignments to serve companies' financial needs. Sometimes this results
 in structures that few people understand, fraught with hidden risks. My latest
 nominee is the CPDO, or Constant Proportion Debt Obligation. CPDOs provide
 capital to finance structured entities writing credit insurance on investment grade
 debt. Because this debt entails little credit risk, the returns that can be earned from
 writing credit insurance on it are similarly low. Thus, these entities have to lever up
 substantially - typically 15-to-1 - to provide the LIBOR+200 returns promised on the
 bottom-tier CPDO. The rating agencies bestow triple-A ratings on the CPDOs
 because (a) the riskiness of investment grade bonds is low and (b) the projected
 interest spreads and the net asset values initially are far more than sufficient to satisfy
 the covenants. But because the portfolios are so highly leveraged, these cushions can
 evaporate quickly.

 I find two things about CPDOs worthy of particular note. First, this is the first-
 loss equity piece beneath a highly leveraged entity where consequences can be
 triggered by breaches of income and market value covenants. Thus, the equity

 beneath a portfolio of bonds averaging single-A, leveraged up 15-to1, gets a
 triple-A rating. Huh? Second, as the Financial Times wrote on November 13,
 "if there are losses and the CPDO's net asset value begins to fall from its target,
 the leverage is increased to try to earn more at a faster rate." In other words, if
 you did a little of something and it didn't work, try to recoup your losses by
 doing a lot.

 What Due Diligence? - The other day, Orin Kramer (see "Pigweed") observed
 U U

 skeptically that "the most profitable way to be a lender today is to have no
 underwriting department." In other words, default rates are too low, and the market is
 too competitive, for credit analysis to be worth paying for. In December, Reuters
 described a takeover bid whose competitiveness was enhanced by a reduced due
 diligence period and a short list of information requirements. And most interestingly,
 one of the major investment banks told us recently that on most syndicated loans,
 about 70% of the buyers never visit the data rooms set up to facilitate due diligence.

 Put the Pedal Down - FT.com pointed out on January 21 that, "One-tenth of the
 U U

 capital committed [to private equity funds] in 2002 was . . . put to work within one
 year. For funds invested in 2005, the corresponding proportion was almost 30
 percent." If the amount raised in 2005 was triple the 2002 level, as I believe was the
 case, that means private equity funds deployed capital in 2005 roughly nine times as
 fast as they had in 2002.

 No one of these is evidence of misfeasance or terminal laxness by itself. But together
 they describe a market where a desire for quantity and speed has taken over from an
 insistence on quality and caution. And with that insistence goes the margin of safety that
 Warren Buffett urges investors to demand.

 The Amazing Disappearing Covenant
 U

 Evaluating and negotiating covenants is an important part of the high yield bond
 investor's job. The law says a company's board of directors has a fiduciary duty to its
 shareholders, but generally speaking there is no analogous duty to creditors such as banks
 and bondholders. In fact, some companies behave as if they feel a responsibility to
 actively take value from creditors and transfer it to the shareholders. Because companies
 can do anything to creditors that isn't prohibited by law or the bond indenture, covenants
 are a key component in creditor safety.

 It's important to bondholders, for example, that the companies to which they lend money
 remain as little changed as possible. They want the creditworthiness they lend against to
 still be there years down the road, and strong covenants can do a lot to ensure that's the
 case. Bondholders can't prevent problems in the economy, the company's markets, its
 products' competitiveness or its executive suite. But with good covenants, they can put
 limits on leverage, acquisitions, cash distributions or asset transfers, and they can tighten
 financial tests and insist on rights that will be triggered if cash flow falls below a

 specified multiple of the company's indebtedness or interest obligation. On the other
 hand, just as people who are eager to buy bonds can increase their chances of being able
 to do so by accepting less interest, they also can do so by settling for weaker covenants.

 When credit markets are tight and providers of capital are reticent, money can be hard to
 come by. Companies' demand for financing can exceed the supply, putting negotiating
 power in the hands of the lenders. Thus lenders can insist on - and obtain - strict
 covenants, and bonds issued in such an environment are likely to be relatively safe.

 But when usually disciplined bond buyers have to compete against others who aren't
 acting in a disciplined fashion, their ability to insist on covenant protection goes out the
 window. In economics, Gresham's Law says "bad money drives out good." That's why,
 when paper money joined gold as legal tender, gold was put in the strongbox rather than
 spent, and only paper money circulated. The same thing happens in the investing world:
 bad investors drive out good. When undisciplined investors are out there with lots of
 money to get rid of, there's less scope for disciplined investors to insist on strong
 covenants. That's why the level of covenant protection is a good barometer of the market
 climate.

 Covenants are the province of a special breed of analysts who are willing to "sweat the
 details" and able to make sense of paragraph-long, highly technical sentences. "A
 Review of Covenant Trends in 2006" by Adam B. Cohen is no less challenging reading.
 It reviews last year's trends in a number of complex indenture provisions, but I'll limit
 myself to quoting its general conclusions:

 For years, investors have periodically lamented the declining quality of
 high yield bond covenants but the trends have become especially
 pronounced amidst a flurry of leveraged buyout (LBO) financings . . . . a
 careful review of covenant packages - particularly in sponsor-backed [i.e.,
 LBO] offerings - during 2006 reveals a systematic dismantling of
 longstanding covenant protections . . .

 And as Reuters reported on February 6, Standard and Poor's added the weight of
 its opinion:

 While credit quality is under even greater pressure, the amount of cash on
 offer has meant private equity sponsors have been able to dilute lenders'
 rights through weaker covenants and loan documentation, [S&P] said.
 "Loan structures have become so borrow-friendly that private equity
 sponsors can write their own term sheets, using their last term sheet as the
 template for their next."

 And, in our view, that template usually serves as the starting point for the next
 round of erosion of covenants and terms.

 Effects Short-Term and Long
 U

 In the short term, the effect of generous capital market conditions is to make more
 money available to more companies for more reasons, at lower rates of interest
 and with fewer covenants. This leads to higher levels of acquisitions, buyouts and
 corporate expansion (not to mention rapid recapitalizations of buyout companies
 and thus high short-term rates of return). In the short run, this contributes to a
 high level of general financial activity.

 Another effect is to forestall financial stringency at weak companies. When
 lenders are strict and covenants are tight, operating problems can lead quickly to
 both technical defaults (violations of covenants) and "money defaults" (non-
 payment of interest or principal). But looser conditions can permit default to be
 forestalled: if covenants are lax; if borrowers have the option to convert cash-pay
 bonds into payment-in-kind bonds (through a recent innovation, "toggle bonds");
 or if they can raise money and thus postpone the day of reckoning.

 Eventually, one would think, many of the forestalled defaults will demonstrate
 their inevitability, with the companies falling from more highly leveraged heights.
 And certainly the capital markets' willingness to finance less-than-deserving
 companies will lead ultimately to a higher level of corporate distress. Thus,
 everything else being equal, the bigger the boom - the greater the excesses of
 the capital markets in the upward direction - the greater the bust. Timing
 and extent are never predictable, but the occurrence of cycles is the closest thing I
 know to inevitable. And usually, the air goes out of the balloon a lot faster than it
 goes in.

 * * *

 Today's financial market conditions are easily summed up: There's a global
 glut of liquidity, minimal interest in traditional investments, little apparent
 concern about risk, and skimpy prospective returns everywhere. Thus, as
 the price for accessing returns that are potentially adequate (but lower than
 those promised in the past), investors are readily accepting significant risk in
 the form of heightened leverage, untested derivatives and weak deal
 structures. The current cycle isn't unusual in its form, only its extent. There's
 little mystery about the ultimate outcome, in my opinion, but at this point in the
 cycle it's the optimists who look best.

 As is often the case, I could have made this a shorter memo by simply invoking
 my two favorite quotations, both of which have a place here.

 The first is from John Kenneth Galbraith, who passed away last year. I was fortunate to
 be able to spend a few hours with Mr. Galbraith a year and a half earlier and to have the

 benefit of his wisdom firsthand. This quote, however, is from his invaluable book, "A
 Short History of Financial Euphoria." It seems particularly apt under the current
 circumstances:

 Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time
 or in past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory.
 In consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further
 consequence, when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again,
 sometimes in only a few years, they are hailed by a new, often youthful,
 and always supremely self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative
 discovery in the financial and larger economic world. There can be few
 fields of human endeavor in which history counts for so little as in the
 world of finance. Past experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at
 all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those who do not have the
 insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.

 The second is Warren Buffett's bedrock reminder of the need to adjust our financial
 actions based on the investor behavior playing out around us. Fewer words, but probably
 even more useful:

 The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the
 prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs.

 This memo can be summed up simply: there's a race to the bottom going on,
 reflecting a widespread reduction in the level of prudence on the part of investors
 and capital providers. No one can prove at this point that those who participate will
 be punished, or that their long-run performance won't exceed that of the naysayers.
 But that is the usual pattern.

 If you refuse to fall into line in carefree markets like today's, it's likely that, for a while,
 you'll (a) lag in terms of return and (b) look like an old fogey. But neither of those is
 much of a price to pay if it means keeping your head (and capital) when others eventually
 lose theirs. In my experience, times of laxness have always been followed eventually by
 corrections in which penalties are imposed. It may not happen this time, but I'll take that
 risk. In the meantime, Oaktree and its people will continue to apply the standards that
 have served us so well over the last twenty years.


Memo: Everyone Knows.

_____________________________________________________________________________

 par·a·dox n 1 a seemingly absurd or self-contradictory statement that is or may
 be true . . . 4 an opinion that conflicts with common belief. (Collins English
 Dictionary)

I'm sometimes asked to speak about investing with the choice of topic wide open. I like to begin
by saying the thing I find most interesting about investing is how paradoxical it is: how often the
things that seem most obvious - on which everyone agrees - turn out not to be true.

I'm not saying accepted investment wisdom is sometimes valid and sometimes not. The reality
is simpler and much more systematic: What's clear to the broad consensus of investors is
almost always wrong.

First, most people don't understand the process through which something comes to have
outstanding moneymaking potential. And second, the very coalescing of popular opinion
behind an investment tends to eliminate its profit potential.

I've been saving up ideas for a memo about how often the investing herd is wrong and accepted
wisdom should be bet against. Then along came the March 1 issue of Mark Faber's "Gloom,
Boom and Doom Report" and its lead quotation from William Stanley Jevons (1835-1882).
Another chance for someone else to help me say it better, this time from 100-plus years ago:

 As a general rule, it is foolish to do just what other people are doing, because
 there are almost sure to be too many people doing the same thing.

"Common Sense" and Other Oxymorons

Take, for example, the investment that "everyone" believes to be a great idea. In my view
by definition it simply cannot be so.

 If everyone likes it, it's probably because it has been doing well. Most people seem to
 think outstanding performance to date presages outstanding future performance.
 Actually, it's more likely that outstanding performance to date has borrowed from the
 future and thus presages sub-par performance from here on out.
 If everyone likes it, it's likely the price has risen to reflect a level of adulation from which
 relatively little further appreciation is likely. (Sure it's possible for something to move
 from "overvalued" to "more overvalued," but I wouldn't want to count on it happening.)
 If everyone likes it, it's likely the area has been mined too thoroughly - and has seen too
 much capital flow in - for many bargains to remain.

 If everyone likes it, there's significant risk that prices will fall if the crowd changes its
 collective mind and moves for the exit.

Superior investors know - and buy - when the price of something is lower than it should
be. And the price of an investment can be lower than it should be only when most people
don't see its merit. Yogi Berra is famous for having said, "Nobody goes to that restaurant
anymore; it's too crowded." It's just as nonsensical to say, "Everyone realizes that
investment's a bargain." If everyone realizes it, they'll have bought, in which case the price
will no longer be low.

The Anatomy of a Bargain

"Is it a good idea?" That's what everyone wants to know. And from time to time, popular
opinion unites behind an investment, anointing it as a good idea - the next solution - the low-risk
sure thing - the "silver bullet." Often this crowd mentality creates a self-fulfilling prophecy . . .
for a while.

I've seen it many times in my 39 years in this business: "it's a good idea to invest in the stocks of
high-growth companies" (or energy stocks, small companies, disc drive companies, emerging
markets, venture capital funds, technology stocks, hedge funds, real estate, China and India, or
private equity). But just as often, I've stated my view: There's no such thing as a good idea.
Only a good idea at a price. Something can be a very good idea at one price and a very bad
idea at another.

Invariably when I hear the media and the herd describe something as a good buy, it's without
regard for price. They never say, "Internet stocks are a good buy at p/e ratios up to 50." Or
"class-A office buildings are a good buy as long as the cap rate exceeds 7%." Or "private
equity's a good idea at purchase prices below seven times EBITDA." Just "it's a good buy."

My response is simple: There is no investment idea so good that it can't be ruined by a too-
high entry price. And there are few things that can't be attractive investments if bought at
a low-enough price. When investors forget these simple truths, they tend to get into trouble.

How Money Is Made

The fact is, there is no dependable sign pointing to the next big moneymaker: a good idea at a
too-low price. Most people simply don't know how to find it. If someone really knew, why
would he share his knowledge? And when the investing herd or some media commentator
expresses an opinion, they're invariably pointing in the wrong direction.

Large amounts of money (and by that I mean unusual returns, or unusual risk-adjusted
returns) aren't made by buying what everybody likes. They're made by buying what
everybody underestimates.

In short, there are two primary elements in superior investing:

 seeing some quality that others don't see or appreciate (and that isn't reflected in the
 price), and
 having it turn out to be true (or at least accepted by the market).

It should be clear from the first element that the process has to begin with investors who
are unusually perceptive, unconventional, iconoclastic or early. That's why successful
investors are said to spend a lot of their time being lonely. As I wrote in "Dare to Be Great,"
non-conformists don't get to enjoy the warmth that comes with being at the center of the herd.
But it should be clear that when you're one of many buying something, it's unlikely to be a
special opportunity. It's only when few others will buy that you can get a bargain.

That's the thinking behind a brilliant observation that I heard in the 1970s, describing the three
stages of a bull market:

 the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone believes things will get better forever.

The loners who buy from a crowd of dispirited sellers can get a good deal - and high returns -
because they're few in number and early. But when every Tom, Dick and Harriet joins the herd,
after the merits of the situation have become obvious to all, they can't expect a bargain; the
merits must be reflected fully - or to excess - in the price. In fact, each of those latecomers
bears the risk of being the last to jump on the bandwagon . . . just before it goes off the cliff.

The Best Companies in America

As readers of these memos know, I first worked in the Investment Research Department of First
National City Bank (now Citibank) in 1968. Whereas common stocks traditionally were bought
on the basis of their issuers' current book value and earnings, "growth investing" recently had
come into fashion. Under this new approach, buyers paid higher-than-usual valuation multiples
for the stocks of "growth companies" in recognition of the above-average rates at which their
earnings were projected to increase in the future.

Growth investing reached its zenith in the pursuit of the "Nifty Fifty," and that's the style the
bank pursued to the virtual exclusion of all others. It consisted of buying the stocks of the best,
fastest-growing companies in America, companies like IBM, Xerox, Polaroid, Kodak, Hewlett
Packard, Texas Instruments, Perkin Elmer, Merck, Lilly and Avon. Each one was a corporate
icon, or what I call a "head nodder" - one person says "Xerox" and everyone else nods and says
"great company." Head nodders are like silver bullets: always the subject of broad,
unquestioning adoration, and thus invariably overpriced.

The trap, of course, is that when everyone agrees something's a great company, it invariably
comes at a great-company price. Some will turn out to actually be great companies, but the

buyers of their stocks have already paid in full for greatness. Others will disappoint, and the
stock of a disappointing company that's been bought at a great-company price can be a disaster.

By 1970, the scene had been set for just such a development by the Nifty Fifty investors' attitude
toward valuation: "These companies are so good, and growing so fast, that there's no such
thing as a price that's too high. If the price seems excessive given this year's earnings, just
wait; the earnings will grow enough to justify the price." Those who participated can say they
cared about price, but I never heard of anyone refusing to hold those stocks just because they
were priced too high. Such discipline is rarely seen during investment manias.

The rest, as they say, is history. In the early and mid-70s, the wheels fell off. Common stock
investing, which had become extremely popular, fell out of favor. Business Week ran its famous
cover story, "The Death of Equities." The economy became mired in stagflation. Great
companies' earnings failed to grow and sometimes contracted. Nifty Fifty stocks that had traded
at p/e ratios of 80 and 90 fell to p/e ratios of 8 and 9 (really). And The Wall Street Journal
eventually ran its customary listing of stocks that had lost 90% - a possible buy signal that
depressed investors routinely ignore.

So we had a quick lesson in the folly of buying on supposed merit alone, without regard to price.
But the lesson continued. Here in 2007, only a few of those "Best Companies in America" are
still thought of as such. In fact, IBM, Xerox, Kodak and Polaroid all became distressed in the
interim and required turnarounds. Warren Buffett made a related observation in this year's
Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report: "Of the ten non-oil companies having the largest market
capitalization in 1965 - titans such as General Motors, Sears, DuPont and Eastman Kodak - only
one made the 2006 list."

The lesson is simple: beware sweeping statements, accepted wisdom and eternal verities,
and look for pearls others haven't recognized.

The Worst Companies in America

I know I tend to repeat myself in these memos - my wife Nancy never fails to remind me - but I
don't think I've ever told the whole story of my entry into the world of high yield bonds.

In 1978, shortly after having organized and begun to manage Citibank's convertibles securities
fund, I got a call from the boss: "There's some guy named Milken or something who works for a
small brokerage firm in California. He deals in 'high yield bonds,' and a client wants us to
manage a portfolio for them; can you find out what they are?" Obviously, that brief conversation
changed my life.

Everyone associates Michael Milken with high yield bonds (no one says "junk" anymore), but
few people know exactly why or how. Mike was neither the inventor (first to create) nor the
discoverer (first to find) of bonds rated below investment grade. He's just the person who did
the most with them. Here are the facts:

 For as long as bonds have been rated, there've been low-rated bonds. But prior to the late
 1970s, non-investment grade bonds couldn't be issued as such. Rather, they were "fallen
 angels": bonds issued with investment-grade ratings that were subsequently downgraded due
 to deterioration on the part of their issuers.

 At Wharton, Mike read a 1958 study by W. Braddock Hickman which showed that over the
 period 1900 to 1949, lower-rated bonds had produced higher realized returns on average than
 higher-rated bonds. Sure some low-rated bonds defaulted, but higher yields and lower
 purchase prices on the many that didn't default more than made up for the ones that did.

 Mike concluded that low-rated bonds were an overlooked asset class; even for a weak credit,
 there had to be some yield that would compensate for the credit risk; thus it should be
 possible to issue bonds with speculative ratings; and he could make it happen.

 Thus Mike's contribution consisted of raising the profile of the asset class and proselytizing
 for it, making a market in high yield bonds and underwriting new issues. He wasn't the only
 one, just the most prominent figure by far. And the expansion of the universe of new issue
 high yield bonds from $2 billion to $200 billion that Mike presided over between 1978 and
 1990 provided early impetus for the growth of buyout investing into the major activity it is
 today.

By the time I got the call described above, Mike had joined Drexel Burnham Lambert, started the
high yield bond department, moved it to California and begun to underwrite new issue high yield
bonds for corporate borrowers. He visited me at the bank in the fall of 1978, and it was even
more of a learning experience than the one I got from the Nifty Fifty. Mike's logic was the
direct opposite, and to me much more appealing. Here's what he told me:

 If you buy triple-A or double-A bonds, there's only one way for them to go: down. The
 surprises are invariably negative, and the record shows that few top-rated bonds remain so
 for very long.
 On the other hand, if you buy B-rated bonds and they survive, all the surprises will be on the
 upside.
 Because the investment process is prejudiced against high yield bonds, they offer yields that
 more than compensate for the risk.
 Thus you'll earn a superior yield for having accepted the incremental credit risk, and
 favorable developments can lead to capital gains as well.
 Your main goal should be to weed out bonds that may default.
 But diversification is essential, too, because some of the bonds you hold will default anyway,
 and your positions in them mustn't be large enough to jeopardize the overall return.

What an object lesson! What an epiphany! Buy the stocks of the best companies in
America at prices that assume nothing can go wrong? Or buy the bonds of unloved
companies at prices that overstate the risk of default, and from which the surprises are
likely to be on the upside? Having seen fortunes lost investing in the best, it seemed much
smarter to buy the worst at too-low prices.

"If we avoid the losers, the winners will take care of themselves." Sound familiar? The
motto we chose for Oaktree was inspired by a lot of people and events, but the morning I spent
with Mike Milken in 1978 was the biggest single source of inspiration.

The Perversity of Risk

"I wouldn't buy that at any price - everyone knows it's too risky." That's something I've
heard a lot in my life, and it has given rise to the best investment opportunities I've participated
in. In fact, to an extent, it has provided the foundation for my career. In the 1970s and 1980s,
insistence on avoiding non-investment grade bonds kept them out of most institutional portfolios
and therefore cheap. Ditto for the debt of bankrupt companies: what could be riskier?

The truth is, the herd is wrong about risk at least as often as it is about return. A broad
consensus that something's too hot to handle is almost always wrong. Usually it's the opposite
that's true.

I'm firmly convinced that investment risk resides most where it is least perceived, and vice
versa:

 When everyone believes something is risky, their unwillingness to buy usually reduces its
 price to the point where it's not risky at all. Broadly negative opinion can make it the least
 risky thing, since all optimism has been driven out of its price.

 And, of course, as demonstrated by the experience of Nifty Fifty investors, when everyone
 believes something embodies no risk, they usually bid it up to the point where it's
 enormously risky. No risk is feared, and thus no reward for risk bearing - no "risk premium"
 - is demanded or provided. That can make the thing that's most esteemed the riskiest.

This paradox exists because most investors think quality, as opposed to price, is the
determinant of whether something's risky. But high quality assets can be risky, and low
quality assets can be safe. It's just a matter of the price paid for them.

The foregoing must be what Lord Keynes had in mind when he coined one of my favorite
phrases: ". . . a speculator is one who runs risks of which he is aware and an investor is one who
runs risks of which he is unaware." In 1978, triple-A bonds were considered respectable
investments, while buying B-rated bonds was viewed as irresponsible speculation. Yet the latter
have vastly outperformed the former, few of which remain triple-A today.

Elevated popular opinion, then, isn't just the source of low return potential, but also of
high risk. Broad distrust, disregard and dismissal, on the other hand, can set the stage for
high returns earned with low risk. This observation captures the essence of contrarianism.

The Unhelpful Consensus

The bottom line is that what "everyone knows" isn't at all helpful in investing. What
everyone knows is bound to already be reflected in the price, meaning a buyer is paying for
whatever it is that everyone thinks they know. Thus, if the consensus view is right, it's likely
to produce an average return. And if the consensus turns out to be too rosy, everyone's likely to
suffer together. That's why I remind people that merely being right doesn't lead to superior
investment results. If you're right and the consensus is right, your return won't be anything to
write home about. To be superior, you have to be more right than the average investor.

Let me give you an outstanding example of a dangerous consensus. Historic data, buttressed by
two decades of good returns, produced near unanimity in the late 1990s regarding future equity
returns. Ask 100 institutional investors and consultants in 1999, and virtually 100 would say
"about 11%." There was little serious dissent. As a result, equity allocations were ratcheted up.
Those who'd fallen behind because they were underweighted in equities earlier in the decade
capitulated and bought more.

Where did the support for that 11% number come from? It's simple: recent results. Earlier work
at the University of Chicago had put the average annual return on stocks closer to 9% into the
1960s, but a couple of decades of much higher returns pushed the cumulative experience - and
thus the expectation - toward 11%. Shouldn't there have been support apart from experience?
Was there an underlying economic process that would make stocks worth 11% more each year?
Couldn't the last fifteen years, averaging well above 11%, have borrowed from the future by
pushing up p/e ratios? Few people inquired. "You can't fight the tape," they said in essence.
Who was willing to take the risk associated with a below-average weighting?

Well, the elevated prices produced by that unanimously positive expectation, a reversal of the
optimism it embodied, and the fact that those above-trend results had in fact borrowed heavily
from the future all led eventually to the first three-year decline in equities since 1930. And, not
surprisingly, to a new consensus. Now everyone says "about 7%." But is today's consensus any
more likely to be right? Or does it just reflect more of that oxymoronic quality, common sense?

Asset Class Returns

Further on the topic of consensus expectations, let me visit the question of whether asset classes
even "have" expected returns. I learned from managing fixed income portfolios that bonds come
closest to having a dependable return. Over its life, a bond that's bought at a 10% yield to
maturity and doesn't default will return 10%, won't it? An obvious truth? No, actually
something of a misstatement.

The majority of the lifetime return on a long-term bond comes not from the promised interest
payments and redemption at maturity, but from the interest earned on interest payments after
they're received. The yield to maturity at which a bond is bought expresses the overall return
that will be earned if interest rates don't change - that is, if interest payments are reinvested at
the rates prevailing at the time of purchase. But because interest rates are highly variable, so is
the "interest on interest" component. Few non-bond people realize how un-fixed even fixed

income investing is, and how substantial is the "reinvestment risk." And beyond bonds, it's even
more up for grabs.

What rate of return is implicit in equity investing? Certainly we should look to more than just
returns over the last ten or twenty years for the answer. The rate of growth in corporate profits
provides a clue, but in the short run, changes in p/e ratios tend to swamp changes in profits.

In 1999, investors asked, "What's been the return on common stocks?" and were seduced by the
11% answer propounded by authorities like Prof. Jeremy Siegel in his book, "Stocks for the
Long Run." What they should have asked, however, is, "What's been the return on common
stocks bought when the Standard & Poor's 500 was priced at 29 times earnings?" (which it
was at the time). In other words, people made the mistake of believing that common stocks
have a single rate of return you can depend on, regardless of entry point. They forgot the great
extent to which the return on an asset is dependent on the price you pay for it.

In the March/April 1997 issue of the Financial Analysts Journal, Peter Bernstein set forth a
helpful way to consider returns from equities - one I'd thought about but had never seen in use.
He calculated returns on the S&P 500 for periods spanning widely separated dates between
which the p/e ratio didn't change. He called the result "valuation-adjusted long-run equity
returns." In December 2006, he published some interesting results. With the S&P 500 trading at
17.2 times earnings, he looked at four periods which had begun with the p/e at the same 17.2 and
found that the returns over those periods had ranged from 10.4% to 11.1%.

In other words, over periods when multiples were unchanged, the S&P 500 did deliver roughly
11%. And in the very long run, over the course of which the impact of p/e fluctuations is
watered down, stocks also have returned 11%. Thus it seemed reasonable for buyers of stocks in
1999 to expect returns of 11% per year. But they failed to think about what might happen if p/e
ratios fell in the short run.

It shouldn't take a Ph.D. (or even an MBA) to know that if you buy the S&P in 1999 at a p/e
ratio of 29, one of the highest multiples ever seen, the p/e ratio could decline and the resulting
return could be below 11% - well below 11% if it happened quickly. In 1999, investors derived
excessive comfort from an optimistic consensus that was based on long-run data. But in 2002,
they were licking wounds inflicted in the short run. It's worth noting that for the seven years that
ended March 31, 2007, the annualized return on the S&P 500 was 0.9%. So much for the
crowd's certainty regarding 11%.

And what about the return on private equity? Before saying what it'll be, investors should think
about where returns come from. Some markets derive their returns from an underlying process.
As far as I'm concerned, owning interests in money-making companies and income-producing
real estate has such an underlying basis for returns, whereas owning gold and art does not.

Companies produce profits, and thus buying interests in them represents buying into a stream of
returns. When a private equity fund buys a company today at nine times EBITDA (which, let's
say, equates to eleven times cash flow after capital expenditure needs), that implies a 9% free-
cash-flow return on invested capital - and maybe 5% after fees and expenses. The rest of the
return that's hoped for must come from doing other things: leveraging up the equity at a cost

below 9%, making the company more productive, or selling it at an increased valuation. But the
ability to do these things is either highly dependent on market conditions (leveraging cheap or
selling dear) or skill-based. The wide disparity among private equity results for any given period
of time shows how much they are a function of the skill of the general partners, and thus that
most of the return on private equity is far from intrinsic to the asset class.

Everyone Knows

Two years ago, the herd knew residential real estate was a can't-miss way to build wealth. "You
can live in it," "it's a hedge against inflation," and "they're not making any more land" were oft-
recited mantras . . . just as they had been in the mid-1980s (See "There They Go Again," April
2005). After ten years of rapid appreciation, owners of condos felt they had it made, and non-
owners felt they were on the outside looking in. People lined up to put down deposits on condos
that hadn't been built yet, and many assembled portfolios that way.

No one talks that way anymore. The air came out of the condo balloon fast once prices stopped
going up, putting the virtuous circle into a stall. The cheap financing that appeared to provide a
ticket to financial security is now seen to have lured many buyers into water over their heads.
"It can only go up" and "if it stops working, I'll get out" - two phrases that are heard in
the course of virtually every financial mania - proved once again to be highly flawed.

To avoid the trap in residential real estate, one needed a memory of events that occurred
more than ten years earlier, the ability to understand their implications, and the discipline
to resist joining the herd. Many failed the test and succumbed to yet another investment craze.

Just think about the many things everyone agreed on in the last decade, and how overdone these
fads turned out to be - or may turn out to be in the future.

 "Everyone" loved emerging markets in the mid-90s, with their concept of per capita
 consumption catch-up . . . until the Russian debt debacle and the collapse of Long-Term
 Capital Management busted that bubble for a while.
 A fellow member of a non-profit investment committee insisted in 1999 that we had to invest
 the endowment in a hi-tech fund . . . just before its portfolio lost more than 90%.
 Hedge funds were widely touted as the surefire solution to the weakness that stocks
 demonstrated in 2000-02, in time to see the average return recede to unexciting single digits.

Great recent performance and a failure to detect risky patterns have cost investors money
on several recent occasions . . . and always will. Now silver bullets ranging from private
equity to art are being touted as ways to make big money without risk . . . ignoring the
unlikely nature of that proposition, as usual. There's plenty of evidence of the popularity of
these ideas. Maybe they'll work forever. Maybe these trees will grow to the sky. But if they do,
they'll be the first.

 * * *

Finally, it's important to remember that investment trends regularly go to great extremes,
meaning "overpriced" and "overdone" are far from synonymous with "going down tomorrow."
As Lord Keynes said, "The market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent."
Thus, whatever it is the herd is favoring, a manager might either (a) hold a little to ensure that it
doesn't continue doing well without him on board, making constituents question his judgment, or
(b) avoid holding any, but he should be prepared to look wrong for a while. Anyone who's
tempted to blow the whistle on a market trend just because it has gone too far or is priced too
high must bear in mind one of the greatest adages of all: "Being too far ahead of your time is
indistinguishable from being wrong."

There's always a period - sometimes a long one - when those who follow the crowd look smart
and the abstainers look dumb. But the roles are inevitably reversed in the long run. Insisting on
buying value and controlling risk can seem awfully dowdy at times, but for us, there is no
other way.


Memo: It’s All Good.

Readers of my memos know that one thing I believe in most strongly - and harp on most frequently -
is the inevitability of cycles. They're something we can depend on absolutely.

Several of my memos have dealt with cycles, starting from the very beginning: "First Quarter
Performance" (April 11, 1991), "Will It Be Different This Time?" (November 25, 1996), "You Can't
Predict. You Can Prepare." (November 20, 2001) and "The Happy Medium" (July 21, 2004). I've
said in the past that I consider "You Can't Predict," a primer on cycles, to have been one of my best
and also that it evoked the least response of any memo in this decade. Thus I'm offering it as a
twofer with this memo; copies are available on request at no additional cost.

I always say that while we can't know where we're going, we ought to know where we are (in
cyclical terms). Understanding our environment can help us decide what tactics to employ, how
aggressive to be, and which potential mistakes we should try hardest to avoid. Being conscious of
cycles can be extremely helpful, even if we can't see the future.

Thus I'm going to devote this memo to the cycle that's been underway for the last few years. In
terms of amplitude, breadth and potential ramifications, I consider it the strongest, most
heated upswing I've witnessed. A lot of this is because people seem to think everything's good
and likely to stay that way.

Cycles in the World of Investing
U

The basics of cycles are simple. The economic cycle gives rise to recessions and recoveries, creating
the business environment. This produces a business cycle marked by rising and falling sales and
profits. The credit cycle swings more radically, such that capital market conditions alternate between
irrationally generous and unfairly restrictive. Likewise, market cycles fluctuate much more than do
the more "fundamental" economic and business cycles, due largely to the volatile cycle in investor
psychology.

In this latter regard, I'll reprint a few paragraphs from "First Quarter Performance," the 1991 memo
cited above. I think they capture investors' pattern of behavior.

 The mood swings of the securities markets resemble the movement of a pendulum.
 Although the midpoint of its arc best describes the location of the pendulum "on
 average," it actually spends very little of its time there. Instead, it is almost always
 swinging toward or away from the extremes of its arc. But whenever the pendulum is
 near either extreme, it is inevitable that it will move back toward the midpoint sooner
 or later. In fact, it is the movement toward the extreme itself that supplies the energy
 for the swing back.

 Investment markets make the same pendulum-like swing:

 between euphoria and depression,
 between celebrating positive developments and obsessing over negatives,
 and thus
 between overpriced and underpriced.

 This oscillation is one of the most dependable features of the investment world, and
 investor psychology seems to spend much more time at the extremes than it does at
 the "happy medium."

Polar Opposites
U

My 2004 memo, "The Happy Medium," took its title from this last phrase and went beyond the three
listed above to discuss additional pairs of opposites between which the investment pendulum
oscillates:

 between greed and fear,
 between optimism and pessimism,
 between risk tolerance and risk aversion,
 between credence and skepticism,
 between faith in value in the future and insistence of concrete value in the present, and
 between urgency to buy and panic to sell.

I find particularly interesting the degree to which the polarities listed above are interrelated. When a
market has been rising strongly for a while, we invariably see all nine of the elements listed first.
And when the market's been declining, we see all nine of the elements listed second. Rarely do we
see a blend of the two sets, given that the components in each are causally related, with one giving
rise to the next.

Usually, when either set of polar extremes is in the ascendancy, that fact is readily observable, and
thus the implications for investors should be obvious to objective observers. But of course, the
swing of the market pendulum to one set of extremes or the other occurs for the simple reason
that the psyches of most market participants are moving in the same direction in a herd-like
fashion. Few of the people involved actually are objective. To continue a thread from my last
memo, "Everyone Knows," expecting widespread clinical observation during a market mania
makes about as much sense as saying "everyone knows the market has gone too far." If many
people recognized that it had gone too far, it wouldn't be there.

Between the two sets of cyclical extremes, I have no doubt that the environment of the last few
years has been marked by the elements listed first above, not second: euphoria, greed,
optimism, risk tolerance and credence; not depression, fear, pessimism, risk aversion and
skepticism. Certainly it's been the recent consensus of investors that, "It's all good."

Unusual Breadth
U

In the past we've seen bull markets in equities, commodities and real estate. And we've seen bull
markets in the U.S., Japan and the emerging markets. But this time around, we've been seeing a
near-global bull market, where the participating sectors vastly outnumber those left out.

In his April letter to investors, entitled "The First Truly Global Bubble," Jeremy Grantham summed
up the worldwide nature of the good times.

 Never before have all emerging countries outperformed the U.S. in GDP growth over
 U U

 a 12-month period until now, and this when the U.S. has been doing well. Not a
 single country anywhere - emerging or developed - out of the 42 listed by The
 Economist grew its GDP by less than Switzerland's 2.2%! Amazingly uniform
 strength, and yet another sign of how globalized and correlated fundamentals have
 become, as well as the financial markets that reflect them.

 Bubbles, of course, are based on human behavior, and the mechanism is surprisingly
 simple: perfect conditions create very strong "animal spirits," reflected statistically in
 a low risk premium. Widely available cheap credit offers investors the opportunity to
 act on their optimism. Sustained strong fundamentals and sustained easy credit go
 one better; they allow for continued reinforcement: the more leverage you take, the
 better you do; the better you do, the more leverage you take.

 A critical part of the bubble is the reinforcement you get for your optimistic view
 from those around you. And of course, as often mentioned, this is helped along by
 the finance industry, broadly defined, that makes more money when optimism and
 activity are high. . . . To say the least, there has never ever been anything like the
 uniformity of this reinforcement.

The March issue of Marc Faber's Gloom, Boom & Doom Report described the pervasiveness of the
positive effect on markets. He listed four "bubbles of epic proportions" that he has witnessed:
metals, mining and energy in the 1970s; Japanese equities and real estate and Taiwanese equities in
the late 1980s; emerging markets in the 1990s; and TMT at the end of the 1990s. In contrast to the
present experience, he pointed out,

 . . . all had one common feature: they were concentrated in just one or very few
 sectors of the economic or investment universe and were accompanied by a poor
 performance in some other asset classes. . . . Currently, looking at the five most
 important asset classes - real estate, equities, bonds, commodities, and art (including
 collectibles) - I am not aware of any asset class that has declined in value since 2002!
 Admittedly some assets have performed better than others, but in general every sort
 of asset has risen in price, and this is true everywhere in the world.

It's interesting not only to see just about everything rise at the same time, but also to see people act as
if this is likely to continue for a prolonged period. Usually that just doesn't happen.

It's Different This Time
U

My memos are full of quotations, adages and old saws. I'm attached to a few and tend to use them
over and over. Why reinvent the wheel, especially if the old one can't be improved upon? Hopefully
the things I borrow contain enough wisdom to make them worth repeating.

Equally worth repeating are the statements I cite as investor mistakes. They, too, are highly
instructive . . . in the sense that they're heard often and must be recognized for how potentially toxic
they are. None is as dangerous as "it's different this time." Those four little words are always
heard when the market swings to dangerously high levels. Like so many of the polar opposites
enumerated above, it's not just the sign of an absurd condition. It's a prerequisite.

 I first came across the phrase in what for me was a seminal article, "Why This Market Cycle Isn't
 Any Different," by Anise C. Wallace (New York Times, October 11, 1987). The stock market's
 rapid ascent at the time was being attributed to (or excused by), among other things, (1) the outlook
 for continued economic growth, given that the economy had learned how to correct itself painlessly,
 (2) the likelihood of continued buying of U.S. stocks by foreign investors piling up dollars with no
 better place to go, and (3) the fact that stocks weren't overvalued compared to other assets, which
 had also appreciated.

 But Ms. Wallace countered as follows: "No matter what brokers or money managers say, bull
 markets do not last forever. In general, investment professionals say, cycles and markets differ only
 by degree." And of course, in the next eight days the Dow fell 30%.

It wasn't just 1987. People also came to believe the business cycle had been tamed in 1928 and in
the late 1990s. And wouldn't you know, I'm hearing it again today:

 The Fed's skillfully walking the tightrope between stimulus and restrictiveness. (A few years
 ago people felt Greenspan was indispensable; now there's suddenly faith in Bernanke.)
 A service economy is less volatile than a manufacturing-based economy.
 As the Chinese and Indians get rich, their purchases from us will buoy our economy.

The truth is, we couldn't have great cyclical extremes if people didn't occasionally fall for a
justification that's never held true before. How else might investors rationalize holding or
buying despite highly elevated valuation parameters, low prospective returns and just-plain-
wacky security structures? I still believe what I wrote in "The Happy Medium":

 Cycles are inevitable. Every once in a while, an up- or down-leg goes on for a long
 time and/or to a great extreme and people start to say "this time it's different." They
 cite the changes in geopolitics, institutions, technology or behavior that have rendered
 the "old rules" obsolete. They make investment decisions that extrapolate the recent
 trend. And then it turns out that the old rules do still apply, and the cycle resumes. In
 the end, trees don't grow to the sky, and few things go to zero. Rather, most
 phenomena turn out to be cyclical.

I'm hearing again - as often in the past - that we're in a Goldilocks economy. It's not so hot that
there's risk of inflation accelerating, which would require restrictive measures on the part of the Fed.

Or so cold that business will slow, with a depressing effect on profits. No, it's just right. Of course,
this condition has never held for long in the past.

Earlier this year, Kenneth Lewis, chairman of Bank of America, summed it up candidly and simply:
"We are close to a time when we'll look back and say we did some stupid things . . . We need a little
more sanity in a period in which everyone feels invincible and thinks this is different."

And while I'm on the subject, I want to offer an important observation. No matter how
favorable and steady fundamentals may be, the markets will always be subject to substantial
cyclical fluctuation. The reason is simple: even ideal conditions can become overrated and
 U

therefore overpriced. And having reached too-high levels, prices will correct, bringing capital
 U

losses despite the idealness of the environment (see tech stocks in 2000). So don't fall into the
trap of thinking that good fundamentals = positive market outlook (and especially not forever).
As I said in "Everyone Knows," profit potential is all a matter of the relationship between
intrinsic value and price. There is no level of fundamentals that can't become overpriced.

Willing Suspension of Disbelief
U

One of the key requisites for enjoying a trip to the movies is a willingness to suspend disbelief. If
they wanted to, moviegoers invariably could find plot glitches, technological impossibilities or
historical inaccuracies. But they tend to overlook them in the interest of having a good time.

Similarly, investors' recurring acceptance that it's different this time - or that cycles are no
more - is exemplary of a willing suspension of disbelief that springs from glee over how well
things are going (on the part of people who're in the market) or rationalization of the reasons
to throw off caution and get on board (from those who've been watching from the sidelines as
prices moved higher and others made money).

The fact is, the higher asset prices go, the more people think assets are worth, and the more eager
they become to buy them. A rip-roaring rally fuels buying appetites rather than make people think
the appreciation may have moved prices to precarious levels. In the same way, price collapses cause
people to worry rather than start combing the market for bargains.

In this way, the bullish swing of the investment cycle tends to cause skepticism and risk
tolerance to evaporate. Faith, credence and open-mindedness all tend to move up - at just the
time that skepticism, discrimination and circumspection become the qualities that are most
needed.

Financial Innovation
U

Another element that I notice tends to rise and fall with the cycles is the level of financial innovation.
Again, this is a cycle that's easily understood.

Wall Street exists to develop and sell new products, no less so than toothpaste manufacturers
and movie studios. So why is it that some periods are rife with innovation and other periods
totally lacking? It's because it's only in bullish times that investors accept financial inventions.
When the market's in an up-swing, people tend to say, "Sure, I'll give it a chance" or "Good, I've

been looking for new ways to make money." But when the market has been moving down and
people are tallying their losses, they tend to be much less open to new ideas. In the financial world,
the mother of invention isn't necessity, its salability.

In the roaring 1960s we saw Nifty-Fifty investing, dual shares from mutual funds and discounted
shares issued through unregistered private placements without any mechanism for subsequent
liquidity. In the '80s we saw portfolio insurance - a surefire way to enjoy the appreciation potential
that comes with large commitments to equities, but with much less risk. And in the '90s, no one
could think of a reason why every dot-com, e-tailer, media aggregation and venture capital fund
wouldn't be successful. Of course, all of these things failed to function as promised and either
disappeared forever or experienced severe corrections.

And what have we seen in the last few years? CDOs, CLOs, CPDOs, SPACs and securitizations of
every type. In the current environment - marked by decent returns; disinterest in conventional, safe
assets; and openness to risky investments - few people seem to dwell on the reasons why something
new might not work. No one asks why, if a $2 billion fund was successful, a $20 billion fund
shouldn't be as well.

Derivatives deserve particular attention in this regard. On July 8 The Wall Street Journal noted that,

 Over the last six years, global futures trading on exchanges has grown nearly 30% a
 year. The total derivatives market is valued at about $500 trillion, four times the value
 of all publicly traded stock and bonds. . . . The four biggest futures exchanges have
 launched more than 300 new derivatives products in just the last few years . . .

Particularly intriguing, it seems the value of outstanding credit default swaps - insurance against
defaults among corporate debt instruments - exceeds the value of the instruments insured. How will
this work if a wave of defaults occurs? How well are the provisions of these insurance contracts
documented? How readily will the writers of the insurance pay up? What will be the effect if
conditions are chaotic? No one knows the answers to these questions. Inventions originate in up
markets, but they're tested in down markets. Rarely do they work entirely as hoped.

In down markets, people see potential risks that can't be argued away. But in markets like this
one, they see opportunities they must seize to avoid being left behind. Thus, like the other
things I'm discussing, a high level of financial innovation is symptomatic of a market that's
been rising for a good while and may be behaving in an overconfident manner.

What, Me Worry?
U

Two recent innovations deserve particular attention here: structured entities and what the British call
"selling onward." Both embody an impractical expectation: that financial engineering can
eliminate risk. Combined, they're particularly dangerous.

In creating structured entities such as CDOs, managers bring together investors with different
risk/return appetites. To satisfy those varying appetites, the investors are sold claims with different
priorities with regard to the entity's portfolio and cashflows, and with projected returns that are
proportional. The managers use the investors' capital to assemble a portfolio of assets. And each
investor receives a security with risk and return tailored to its needs.

It should work . . . in theory. My biggest knocks on structuring are these: First, many of the people
who develop the structured entities and rate their securities know more about probabilities than they
do about the specific assets in the portfolio, something that's particularly dangerous when portfolios
are highly leveraged. And second, there seems to be a belief that this process - at Oaktree we call it
"slicing and dicing" - can reduce the overall risk in the system.

If risk is reduced, I'd like to know where the eliminated part goes. If ten people each hold a share of
ten highly correlated risky assets, I don't think the overall system is much less risky than if each of
the ten people held one entire risky asset. At the extreme, however, it may be true that risk sharing
reduces the likelihood that a spate of failures will precipitate a generalized credit crunch.

Selling onward is the process through which the originating of assets and the owning of assets are
separated. In the old days, banks made loans and mostly held on to them, syndicating a bit to build
relationships and limit risk. Nowadays, banks originate loans largely to generate loan and
syndication fees, and actually living with the loans is much less prevalent. After they're originated,
assets such as corporate loans, mortgages, auto paper and credit card receivables are often packaged
and sold, sometimes in the form of securities. There's a belief that this process, too, makes the world
less risky.

I fail to see net benefits here as well. Instead, I think this process introduces great moral hazard.
When the people making loans aren't going to remain dependent on the borrowers they give money
to, they have little incentive to actively police risk. Thus I have grave doubts about a lot of the credit
decisions being made.

For an extreme example, take a look at the subprime mortgage brokers. Were they motivated to
make prudent credit decisions? No; they were motivated to create a lot of paper. There's
something wrong when it's in someone's best interests to lend money to unqualified borrowers,
but this was the case in subprime mortgages. Obviously this occurred because mortgage brokers
weren't risking their own money. With selling onward so prevalent, an originator just had to hope
the borrower would make the first few payments, so that delinquencies wouldn't surface before the
originator's repurchase obligation expired and the loans became the buyer's problem. How could
buyers have been silly enough to purchase loans made by brokers operating under this set of
incentives?

Now, let's combine structuring and selling onward. Here's how I see it working:

 A mortgage broker makes a bunch of loans without knowing much about creditworthiness (think
 about so-called "liar loans") or caring much about creditworthiness (because he intends to sell
 them momentarily).
 An investment banker buys a few hundred of these loans, also without knowing much about them
 (because of their sheer numbers), in order to package them into residential mortgage-backed
 securities (RMBS) and sell them onward.
 An investment manager buys a few dozen RMBS, about which he doesn't know much (also the
 numbers) or care much (because the fees and potential profits incentivize him to put a lot of
 money to work fast). They become part of the portfolio of a CDO, against which debt is issued.
 A rating agency analyst assigns ratings to the CDO debt, about which he can't know much (lack
 of specialized expertise; vast number of underlying assets; structural complexity and the newness

 A hedge fund manager buys CDO debt about which he doesn't know much (with thousands of
 underlying mortgages having been sliced and diced) or worry much (given the high debt ratings).

Concoctions like this are tolerated only in heady times. Clearly the results can be incendiary. We're
waiting to see the final outcome - and perhaps to pick among the ashes.

One last thought: Let's say slicing, dicing and selling onward do have the potential to reduce the
overall level of risk in the system, all other things being equal. Even if that were true, the other
things wouldn't remain equal; market participants would adjust their behavior to the new
reality and in so doing return risk to its old level. On May 23, the Financial Times said this about
trying to reduce risk by selling onward and by obtaining credit insurance via derivatives:

 This makes banks less vulnerable to individual defaults. But it could also be making
 them feel so comfortable about lending risks that they are making more risky
 loans. Outside investors such as hedge funds are gobbling them up, either because
 they also think they are protected with credit derivatives or because they are
 desperate to find somewhere to place their cash. This has triggered a collapse in the
 standards used to conduct and fund deals. (Emphasis added)

Again, no matter how good fundamentals may be, humans exercising their greed and propensity to
err have the ability to screw things up. Perhaps Myron Scholes put it most succinctly (The Wall
Street Journal, March 6): "My belief is that because the system is now more stable, we'll make
it less stable through more leverage, more risk taking."

The L Word
U

Some of the most glaring innovation this time around has taken place in the area of leverage. It's not
that leverage hasn't been available and been used before: In the late 1980s, companies like RJR were
the subject of leveraged buyouts in which 95% of the purchase price was borrowed. Nowadays, debt
rarely constitutes much more than 80% of buyout capital structures, but the terms of the debt and the
ease of obtaining it are startlingly accommodating.

Unlike the historic norm, it's routine today to issue CCC-rated bonds. It's easy to borrow money for
the express purpose of distributing cash to equity holders, magnifying the company's leverage. It's
so easy to issue bonds with little or no creditor protection in the indenture that a label has been
coined for them: "covenant-lite." And it's possible to issue bonds whose interest payments can be
paid in more bonds at the option of the borrower.

The first requirement for an elevated opportunity in distressed debt is the unwise extension of
credit, which I define as the making of loans which borrowers will be unable to service if things
get a little worse. This happens when lenders fail to require a sufficient margin of safety.

Here the interrelatedness of cycles is quite evident. Good economic times bring rising profits.
Rising profits cause the default rate to subside. And the low default experience erases lenders'
reticence. Among other things, they become willing to lend money so that troubled companies can

stay afloat and hopefully outgrow their problems. Today that's called "rescue finance"; in less rosy
times it might be called "throwing good money after bad."

The default rate in the high yield bond universe is at a 25-year low on a rolling-twelve-month
basis. Under such circumstances, how could the average supplier of capital be expected to
maintain a high level of risk aversion and prudence, especially when doing so means ceding all
the loan making to others? It's not for nothing that they say "The worst of loans are made in
the best of times."

The Downside of Leverage
U

If lenders are acting in an imprudent fashion, what's the effect on the borrowing companies? If loans
are available too readily, is it right or wrong to borrow? These are among the most interesting
questions of the day.

Lots of good things have been said about leverage. In the late 1980s, when venerable American
companies were being bought in leveraged buyouts structured with debt/equity ratios of 25-to-one,
we were told that an underleveraged balance sheet is indicative of a sub-optimal capital structure and
excessive use of high-cost equity, and that significant leverage sharpens management's focus on cash
flow and leads to better expense control.

The only thing omitted was the reminder that equity - which doesn't require the periodic payment of
interest or the repayment of principal at maturity - represents a company's margin of safety. It's the
capital layer that absorbs the first blow in tough times without occasioning an event of default.
While leverage may magnify gains in good times, it's a healthy layer of equity that gets
companies through the bad times.

It's inescapable that, all other things equal, greater leverage increases a company's likelihood
of experiencing financial distress. Thus, with lenders enjoying a carefree recent experience and
consequently financing some unwise deals - and with borrowers eager for the enhanced upside
potential that comes with leverage - it seems clear that we'll see rising rates of default and
bankruptcy a few years down the pike. This is especially true if, as has often been the case
recently, debt is incurred not just to leverage the company's equity, but to finance payouts to equity
holders that reduce or eliminate the equity.

So then, are private equity funds - raising much more equity capital than ever, and doing the biggest
deals in history at a rapid-fire pace, at rising transaction prices and rising leverage ratios - doing a
smart thing or making a mistake? It all depends on how you look at things. The funds seem to be
looking in terms of optionality.

Ketchup, Easy Money and Optionality
U

I was a picky eater when I was a kid, but I loved ketchup, and my pickiness could be overcome with
ketchup. I would eat hamburgers, frankfurters, veal cutlets, filet of sole and frozen fish sticks, but as
far as I was concerned, they were all just vehicles for ketchup. The ketchup of today is easy
borrowing, and private equity managers are entering into a large number of transactions to access it.

Let me illustrate what I consider to be the thought process: If you were offered the chance to buy
companies with 100% debt financing and no money of your own, how many would you buy? The
smart answer is, "All of them." Not just the well-run ones? Or the growing ones? Or the profitable
ones? No; all of them. Some would produce positive cash flow and/or appreciation, which you'd
welcome. The others would be unsuccessful, but with none of your own money invested, you'd just
walk away. That's optionality.

Optionality is a new-age finance term for the ability to cheaply obtain a call on asset
appreciation, creating the possibility of profits out of proportion to potential losses. That's the
way it is in venture capital: all you can lose is your investment, but you can multiply it hundreds of
times simply by finding the next Google. Even though venture capital investing produces only
occasional success, it's justified by the occasional outsized payoff.

I think that's the deal today in mega-private equity. In their highly successful first decade of 1975-
85, LBO funds invested in small, underpriced industrial concerns or orphaned corporate spinoffs.
They paid low prices for stable companies, financed their purchases with moderate amounts of debt,
and put a lot of energy into improving the companies' operations. Both their batting averages and
their overall rates of return were attractive.

But I'm not sure that's the model today. Few companies are languishing on the bargain counter, and
everyone knows that if buyout funds bid for a company, the shareholders had better take a good look
at what they're giving up. Likewise, buyout funds are buying well into a period of economic
expansion, and the scope for improvement in operations may be limited.

No, the model today seems different: pay premiums to open-market prices for prominent, multi-
billion dollar companies, sometimes after the boards, shareholders or other bidders have forced prices
higher. Borrow large sums to finance the deals. Generate whatever fundamental improvement you
can. Hope the market will provide a highly leveraged payoff. And, given the enormity of the scale,
get rich off management fees, ancillary fees and the profits from the ones that work.

In other words, it seems that, relative to the past, the thought process in mega-private equity is based
on the combination of (1) ultra-cheap financing, (2) high fees, (3) quick withdrawal of equity capital
and (4) a lower batting average but big payouts on the winners. The optionality is certainly on the
GPs' side. Let's hope it works for the LPs as well.

If the Lender's a Sap, Is the Borrower a Genius?
U

I have a lot of experience looking at leveraged transactions from the standpoint of the lender, but less
experience as a borrower. Thus I found it novel - even surprising - to read a January memo on this
subject from Carlyle founder William Conway to his colleagues, with thoughts echoing mine:

 As you all know (I hope), the fabulous profits that we have been able to generate for
 our limited partners are not solely a function of our investment genius, but have
 resulted in large part from a great market and the availability of enormous amounts of
 cheap debt. This cheap debt has been available for almost all maturities, most
 industries, infrastructure, real estate, and at all levels of the capital structure. Frankly,
 there is so much liquidity in the world financial system, that lenders (even "our"
 lenders) are making very risky credit decisions. . . .

 I know that this liquidity environment cannot go on forever. I know that the longer it
 lasts the more money our investors (and we) will make. I know that the longer it
 lasts, the greater the pressures will be on all of us to take advantage of this liquidity.
 And I know that the longer it lasts, the worse it will be when it ends. And of course
 when it ends the buying opportunity will be a once in a lifetime chance. But, I do not
 know when it will end. . . .

 Last year, I asked you to be humble, ethical and optimistic. This year I am asking
 you to be careful as well.

In 1990-91, our distressed debt funds made a fortune buying the obligations of companies that had
been loaded up with too much debt in LBOs in the late '80s. Chastened by that experience, lenders
in the '90s didn't provide enough leverage to make buyout companies much of a factor in the debt
collapse of 2002. But with the memory of having 1990-91 faded, leverage became freely available in
the last few years, and thus we have little doubt we'll be buying a great deal of distressed LBO debt
the next time around.

When all the above is taken together, it seems likely that a few years out, we'll see a landscape
littered with companies that were crippled with excessive debt loads and lenders who weren't repaid.
What happens to private equity funds and their investors will depend on the outcome of a game of
hot potato: will they get their capital - and their gains - out of the over-leveraged companies before
they go sour? We'll see.

But Don't the Borrowers Have a Free Pass?
U

Much is being made of the possibility that today's debt is default-proof. "Toggle bonds" give
borrowers the option of paying interest in the form of more bonds for a while. And covenant-lite
indentures mean the likelihood of an interim technical default has been reduced. Do these
developments reduce the overall risk?

This, too, goes back to the concept of optionality. The value of an option is greater the longer it has
to run, and options that can't be extinguished early are worth more than those that can.

Think of someone who issues ten-year bonds to raise the money with which to buy a company. On
the surface, it seems he has ten years for his purchase to work out profitably, at the end of which
period he has to repay his lenders. In other words, he has a ten-year option on the company's
appreciation potential. But what if the company gets in a bind in the early years and misses an
interest payment? Or if an economic slowdown causes a technical breach of a covenant? In past
downturns, these things have forced borrowers to pay lenders for extensions or forbearance, and they
have led to defaults. Those things may be somewhat less likely nowadays.

It is true that payment-in-kind and covenant-lite loans reduce the likelihood of interim defaults. But
does that mean the credit landscape is risk-free and lenders can breathe easy? Sooner or later, debt
has to be repaid or refinanced, and the credit market may not be accommodating at that moment; this
is especially true if the company's fortunes have deteriorated. Not enough of a company's debt may
be default-proof to make it invulnerable. The price of the debt may decline with the fundamentals,

even if default isn't an immediate threat. And the free pass in the interim may just delay - but also
worsen - the eventual outcome.

Under a traditional structure, a company might default in the third year of a bond's life, by which
time 20% of its value may have evaporated. But with these new wrinkles, it might not happen until
year five . . . when 60% of the value is gone. Yes, lenders are giving borrowers more rope. But
will it prove to be a lifeline for the company or a hangman's noose? A lot will depend on how
things go while the postponed default is in abeyance.

This is yet another area where up-cycle faith that risk has been reduced can convince people to add
back the risk. As The Wall Street Journal said of standby revolvers on May 11, "Thanks to debt
arrangements like this, some private-equity buyers say they are doing deals they would otherwise not
do."

What Could Cause This Upward Cycle to Falter?
U

Since I insist that the good times can't roll on forever, I'm often asked what might make them stop. I
don't have any inside information on this subject, but I can enumerate the possibilities:

 1. economic slowdown,
 2. reduced willingness to lend or insistence on higher interest rates, perhaps due to increased
 worry about credit risk,
 3. systemic problems like a crisis in derivatives or a cluster of hedge fund meltdowns,
 4. exogenous factors such as $100 oil, a dollar crisis, terrorist acts, and
 5. the things I haven't thought of.

First, I want to point out that these things are not unrelated. A reduction in lenders' willingness to
lend may stem from an economic slowdown. An economic slowdown could be brought on by an
exogenous event. It's when there's a confluence of these things that the debt market gets into real
trouble, as was the case in 1990 and 2002.

Second, these things are often unpredictable. I like to remind people that the best buying opportunity
we ever had in distressed debt arose in the summer of 2002, when recession, credit crunch, 9/11,
Afghanistan, telecom meltdown and the scandals at Enron et al. occurred all at once. Few if any of
these were predictable twelve months earlier.

And third, the one we should worry about most is number five. Investors can cope with the things
they can anticipate, analyze and discount. They have more trouble with the rest. I love hearing
people from the "I know" school say, "I'm not anticipating any surprises." Those are the
developments that can knock a market into a cocked hat. As Martin Wolf wrote in the Financial
Times on May 2, "The most obvious reason for taking today's euphoria with a barrel of salt is that
nobody ever expects shocks. That is what makes them shocks."

Where do we stand in the cycle? In my opinion, there's little mystery. I see low levels of
skepticism, fear and risk aversion. Most people are willing to undertake risky investments, often
because the promised returns from traditional, safe investments seem so meager. This is true even
though the lack of interest in safe investments and the acceptance of risky investments have rendered

the slope of the risk/return line quite flat. Risk premiums are generally the skimpiest I've ever seen,
but few people are responding by refusing to accept incremental risk.

Peter Bernstein put it this way in the February 15 issue of Economics and Portfolio Strategy:

 I hear over and over that we live in an era of low expected returns. The rational
 response to low expected returns is to withdraw and wait until expected returns are
 higher. That response to low expected returns appears to have gone out of fashion.
 Today's response is to seek higher returns from higher risks in a low-risk
 environment - or, worse, to underestimate the risks taken. [Of course, I am less
 certain than Peter that we are in a low-risk environment.]

Markets have tended recently to move up on positive developments and to recover easily from
negatives. I see few assets that people are eager to get rid of, and few forced sellers; instead, most
assets are strongly bid for. As a result, I'm not aware of any broad markets that I would describe as
under-priced or uncrowded. I will say, however, that some of the excess confidence that usually
accompanies booms may be missing. Some of the people making risky investments today seem to be
doing so with their fingers crossed. And even though they're optimistic enough to make these
prosperity-oriented investments, they're also wary enough to want to hedge their bets by
participating in distressed debt as well.

It is what it is. We've been living in optimistic times. The cycle has been swinging strongly
upward. Prices are elevated and risk premiums are slender. Trust has replaced skepticism,
and eagerness has replaced reticence. Do you agree or disagree? That's the key question.
Answer it first, and the implications for investing become clear.

In the first quarter of this year, significant delinquencies occurred in subprime mortgages. Those
directly involved lost a lot of money, and onlookers worried about contagion to other parts of the
economy and other markets. In the second quarter, the impact reached CDOs that had invested in
subprime mortgage portfolios and hedge funds that had bought CDO debt, including two Bear
Stearns funds. Those who had to liquidate assets were forced - as usual - to sell what they could
sell, not what they wanted to sell, and not just the offending subprime-linked assets. We began to
read about ratings downgrades, margin calls and fire-sales, the usual fuel for capital market
meltdowns. And in the last few weeks we've begun to see investor reticence on the rise, with new
low-grade debt issues repriced, postponed or pulled, leaving bridge loans un-refinanced.

It is in this way that awareness of the inevitability of cycles is reawakened, and it is for reasons
like these that the pendulum starts to swing back from one extreme toward the center of its arc
. . . and then the other extreme. We never know whether a little jiggle is the start of the swing
back and, if so, how far it will go. But we always should be aware that reversion will occur.

The last 41⁄2 years have been carefree, halcyon times for investors. That doesn't mean it'll stay that
way. I'll give Warren Buffett the last word, as I often do: "It's only when the tide goes out that you
find out who's been swimming naked." Pollyannas take note: the tide cannot come in forever.
Time, tide and cycles wait for no man.


Memo: It’s All Good . . . Really?.

As I worked on "It's All Good" during my vacation in late June - and even when I issued
 it two weeks ago - I had no reason to believe that the universally upward cycle about
 which I was writing could be curtailed before the end of July. But the good times
 certainly have stopped rolling in many areas, at least for now. I think it's extremely
 important to study the way this has happened, as it provides a highly instructive object
 lesson.

 It's folly to think we know in advance just what it is that will cause the market
 pendulum to stop swinging in one direction and start in the other, but it's even
 greater folly to think that nothing of that nature will happen. That's my twist on one
 of my favorite quotes, from behaviorist Amos Tversky:

 It's frightening to think that you might not know something, but more
 frightening to think that, by and large, the world is run by people who
 have faith that they know exactly what's going on.

 My friend Bruce Newberg thinks a quote attributed to Mark Twain says it best, and he
 may be right:

 It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know
 for sure that just ain't so.

 Over the last few years, some people went around saying, "We don't know what bad
 thing will happen, but something will," and others said, "We're confident that
 nothing bad will happen." Now, as is often the case, unassuming caution seems to
 be winning out over cocksure optimism.

 The Seed
 U

 This memo isn't about the events of July 2007, but rather how recent events exemplify
 the time-honored pattern that kicks off the swing back of the pendulum. That pattern
 often begins with a single seed, and sometimes one that's hard to identify. That difficulty
 isn't there this time; it's just that the seed seems so small compared with the
 repercussions.

 The seed of the current cyclical downturn sprouted in the area of subprime mortgages,
 residential loans made to homeowners with less-than-stellar creditworthiness. The mere

 making of those loans didn't create the problem. Rather, it's the fact that both borrowing
 and lending decisions were quite poor and in many cases misguided.

 As I described in "It's All Good," loan originators and mortgage brokers were
 incentivized by fees to generate loan volume and often were able to do so without having
 to risk their own capital. They were paid to produce quantity, not quality, and - surprise!
 - they did. Capital providers' lack of concern regarding creditworthiness enabled
 borrowers to borrow more than they could repay and more than was justified under
 prudent lending standards . . . at adjustable rates even if the borrowers couldn't withstand
 an upward adjustment . . . often supported by inadequate documentation regarding
 incomes and assets. Deficiencies in due diligence even permitted numerous cases of
 mortgage fraud, where borrowers bought houses, marked them up through sales to related
 parties, and then borrowed against them in amounts far in excess of their actual value
 (and their cost).

 It's not surprising that these circumstances combined to produce a high volume of
 deficient loans. In fact, it would be amazing if they hadn't. Who could have looked at
 this system without expecting this outcome?

 Okay - bad loans were made, and delinquencies and foreclosures have been rising among
 the weakest of mortgage borrowers. How can these isolated developments have jumped
 the rails to affect commercial real estate? How could they possibly have led to difficulty
 for the private equity industry, which does no mortgage lending? And how can these
 specific linkages have been generalized into widespread repercussions on the economy
 and the credit and equity markets?

 Contagion
 U

 Among the many cyclical phenomena that recur regularly, one of the most
 interesting is the attitude toward contagion. When the environment is rosy and
 market participants are optimistic, negative developments are described as "isolated
 incidents." Market participants find it easy to maintain their equilibrium, and the
 possibility of repercussions is easily dismissed. This is no more realistic than what
 we see at the pessimistic end of the pendulum's swing, where negatives are
 generalized into epidemics, contagion is overstated and participants totally lose their
 cool.

 Early in June, I met with Marty Fridson of FridsonVision. Marty is a longtime friend and
 one of the deans of the high yield bond business - by any standard an expert on credit. In
 his discussion of the subprime crisis, Marty referenced a complex flowchart labeled
 "Possible Paths to Contagion." It showed a number of ways in which the subprime
 problem could affect high yield bonds. Linkages like these can be foreseen if you're
 thoughtful and willing to look ahead. Marty focused on contagion to high yield bonds,
 but I'll discuss below how this small problem has spread far more broadly.

 Animal, Vegetable or Mineral?
 U

 These were the categories into which things fell on the old TV quiz show "Twenty
 Questions," and they were always the subject of the panelists' first question. In the case
 of the subprime crisis, the factors contributing to contagion can be sorted into three other
 categories: fundamental, psychological and technical. Here are some examples:

 Fundamental influences are those with tangible consequences for business. When
 mortgage delinquencies rise sharply, first there are the obvious direct effects:

 Lenders lose money, and some go bankrupt.
 Real estate brokers' commissions dry up.
 Homebuilders see less demand for their product.
 Building materials companies see lower volumes.

 Then there are the second-order consequences, or what the British would call the "knock-
 on effects":

 Home prices fall. Mortgages based on the old, high prices cannot be refinanced, and
 simple economics makes it smarter to default rather than service a $500,000 mortgage
 on what is now a $400,000 house. Thus delinquencies rise further.
 Lower home prices at the bottom of the ladder ripple through other sectors of the
 housing market.
 All consumers feel poorer due to the negative wealth effect and curtail their
 expenditures, crimping revenues at retailers and then manufacturers.
 Borrowing declines, depressing the level of business at financial institutions.

 All of these things have direct consequences for the economy and the markets - from just
 the little seed of bad subprime loans. But there will also be extensive psychological
 repercussions:

 Losses that are experienced - or even just imagined - cause investors and providers
 of capital to realize they've been overstating positives and understating negatives.
 Their confidence ebbs and they start to worry. Thus they make less capital available
 for risky investments, or they charge more for the capital they will provide.
 Thus risk premiums and expected returns must rise if investors are to be induced to
 make further risk-bearing investments. One way this happens is through higher
 interest rates - depressing consumer and business activity.
 Another way prospective returns are raised is through price declines for existing
 assets, and these can course through many markets.

 Finally, the environment is altered by technical factors that influence the supply/demand
 balance for capital and assets.

 As capital dries up, deals become less attractive (because the cost of capital is higher)
 and maybe downright impossible to execute (because capital is unavailable).

 If portfolio holdings have to be sold to reduce leverage or raise cash to meet actual or
 feared withdrawals, this has a depressant effect on asset prices that reinforces the
 cycle.
 Lower asset prices may lead to margin calls, and thus possibly to fire sales.
 Forced sellers sell what they can sell, not necessarily what they want to sell. As a
 result, the prices of assets that are entirely unrelated to the fundamental problem can
 join the downward spiral. It's for this reason that they say, "In times of crisis, all
 correlations go to one."

 Every one of the above factors has been seen in the last few weeks - all growing from
 just the subprime seed. The economy is still showing good strength overall and most
 companies are doing fine; the default rate among high yield bonds continues to run
 at 25-year lows. But strong fundamentals mean little if technical factors combine
 with a fundamental problem to profoundly depress investor psychology.

 It's important to remember the extent to which these factors interrelate. Fundamentals
 influence psychology, which determines technicals, which feed back to further affect
 fundamentals. Just as these things can create a virtuous circle on the upside - such
 as the one that has prevailed since late-2002 - they're now behind the apparent start
 of a vicious circle on the downside.

 The L Word Revisited
 U

 Most explanations of the financial dynamism of the last few years have centered on
 something called "excess liquidity." Vast amounts of liquidity in the hands of investors,
 it's been said, caused them to avidly pursue investments, neglect due diligence, accept
 low prospective returns, and therefore bid up asset prices.

 But where does excess liquidity come from? Not from more currency. The amount of
 currency in the world is somewhat fixed, and each person's receipt is another person's
 expenditure. The fact that China has massive reserves to invest merely means those sums
 came out of someone else's account.

 I think the "L word" that should be focused on isn't liquidity, but leverage. This is
 the one I discussed in "It's All Good," and the element behind many of the excesses of
 late. High levels of lending and borrowing relative to capital balances can increase buying
 power and fire up economies and markets. The question is whether that expansion will be
 maintained and increased. If not, this source of growth will peter out . . . as has been the
 case in the last few weeks.

 A decade or so back, the ability of parties other than the Fed to increase the leverage in
 the system was limited. Margin debt for purchases of stock couldn't exceed 100% of an
 investor's equity, and bank loans likewise were restricted to a multiple of capital. But in
 recent years, some new factors have meaningfully changed the picture, including
 derivatives, hedge funds and non-bank lending. All three of these - among which there is

 significant overlap - have negated the old limits and made vast amounts of leverage
 available to investors and asset buyers.

 This leveraging up was the greatest single element in the asset surge of the last few
 years. In fact, the breadth of the gains tells me we didn't have an "asset bubble,"
 but rather a "leverage bubble." As Jeremy Grantham points out in his latest letter,
 leveraged loans (so-called "bank loans" often funded by hedge funds rather than banks)
 are a good candidate for the "bubble" label, as their volume in the first half of 2007, at
 $545 billion, was up 60% over the same period in 2006, which showed a similarly
 dramatic increase over 2005. Leverage (along with the lowered standards that resulted
 from eagerness to put borrowed capital to work) was the common thread in much of the
 appreciation that took place across asset classes and regions.

 Now we're having a chance to see - once again - that the process works in both
 directions. And as so often is the case, the air tends to come out of the balloon far
 faster (and more violently) than it went in. The process is mesmerizing - like
 watching a train wreck happen.

 The Engine of Growth Seizes Up
 U

 The pervasiveness of leverage throughout the financial system means the slowing process
 comes in many forms and takes many twists and turns. It's not possible - or necessary -
 to enumerate all of them. All we need are a couple of examples. For these we'll take a
 look at collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs.

 For a simple example, consider commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS. Over
 the last few months, Bruce Karsh has pointed out that prices for CMBS were falling even
 though the business of being a landlord was good and prices of buildings were increasing.

 His explanation has been that many CDOs held both subprime paper and the riskier
 tranches of CMBS. Because of the developments in the subprime area, (1) they were
 affected by psychological contagion, (2) new ones couldn't be formed, meaning CDOs
 ceased to be buyers of new CMBS, and (3) some faced the need to reduce their leverage
 and raise cash. Unable to sell subprime assets (or not wishing to recognize losses if they
 could be deferred), they've been selling CMBS, putting downward pressure on prices.
 That's how problems in one asset class can depress prices in another.

 Now let's look a little deeper. Bear in mind that CDO managers are paid to (1) issue debt
 in tranches that vary in terms of seniority and promised return and (2) use the proceeds to
 assemble portfolios of debt instruments. Borrow and buy, borrow and buy. A CDO
 manager's compensation increases in proportion to the amounts involved and is locked in
 for the term of the CDO. Thus CDO managers, like mortgage brokers, were motivated to
 play a major part in what I described in "The Race to the Bottom" in February: "a
 market where a desire for quantity and speed has taken over from an insistence on

 quality and caution." Not all managers succumbed to this temptation, of course, but it
 was there.

 CDOs have been among the greatest contributors to the recent upswing. To a large
 extent they were a bottomless pit that could never be filled, a prime source of
 demand for debt. Why was their growth so strong? Because they offered a terrific deal,
 attracting vast quantities of money that had to be invested. What was that deal? Simple:
 high-rated debt at low-grade yields.

 Too good to be true? Of course. The ratings were too high because rating agency
 analysts had to rate exotic structured products with which they had no experience (and
 probably no true understanding). And I'm confident the CDO managers were very
 persuasive, using sophisticated statistical models to explain how safe they were thanks to
 portfolio diversification and over-collateralization. For this reason, many tranches of
 CDOs stuffed with non-investment grade debt received investment grade ratings, looked
 cheap based on their attractive promised yields, and thus sold out rapidly.

 CDOs were among the greatest buyers of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS)
 and non-investment grade leveraged loans. I'll bet some investors even leveraged up to
 buy the debt of these highly leveraged entities, which in turn used their capital to buy
 highly leveraged paper. Could the end be in doubt? This mode of response to the low-
 return environment of the last few years was doomed to end badly.

 Now the fallacies in this approach have been exposed, with widespread ramifications:

 Because the ability to create new CDOs may be greatly curtailed, they're unlikely to
 represent much of a source of demand for new leveraged loans.
 In that case, future buyouts dependent on leveraged loan issuance won't be funded as
 readily.
 Billions in bridge loans that investment banks extended for buyouts appear to be
 "hung" because of the difficulty in refinancing them through sales to investors.
 The investment banks behind the loans are likely to encounter substantial losses as
 they're marked down to make them salable.
 Outstanding high yield bonds and leveraged loans will have to decline in price (and
 rise in yield) to make them competitive with this marked-down buyout paper.
 Debt that has been inventoried to facilitate the formation of new CDOs may have to
 be dumped at losses now that the CDO creation process has shrunk.
 Investment banks that made bridge loans and amassed inventories for non-existent
 CDOs may be unwilling to extend new financing from their balance sheets.
 Fewer buyouts will be able to be financed as long as the debt markets remain in this
 condition.
 Thus the "LBO put" may no longer be a force in the stock market, in which case
 investors will no longer be able to count on buyout funds to purchase companies at
 premium prices.

 How did the increase in subprime mortgage delinquencies lead to last week's 580 point
 drop in the Dow? These are some of the ways. Fault lines run through portfolios,
 markets and economies, and usually they are exposed only in times of crisis. The
 fault line this time came in the form of pervasive leverage.

 The Role of Psychology
 U

 At the end of each day, Oaktree's debt trading desk sends out an email recapping our
 buys and sells, along with market developments and the day's biggest headlines. On July
 26, (the day the Dow declined 312 points), one of the headlines read "Paulson Says
 Subprime-Mortgage Collapse Doesn't Threaten Economic Growth."

 On the simplest level, there's every reason to understand that the failure to make monthly
 payments on the part of a bunch of mortgage borrowers at the bottom of the credit ladder
 won't have direct effects far beyond their local communities and the holders of their
 loans. But (1) the government usually does a poor job of anticipating second-order
 consequences and (2) politicians have every incentive to act as cheerleaders for the
 economy and downplay the negatives. Unlike distressed debt investors and other bargain
 hunters, no officeholder wants to see economic weakness, since it tends not to do much
 for re-electability.

 Even leaving aside this factor, the issue here comes down to the difference between the
 direct workings of the "real" economy and the follow-on effects of psychology. I believe
 the latter are profound and have the ability to overwhelm the former. In fact, I
 sometimes think there's little to the economy other than psychology - and thus that
 the real economy simply can't be distinguished from the psychological one.

 If consumers feel insecure about their economic future, they won't buy.
 If they don't expect consumers to buy, manufacturers of consumer goods will cut
 back production, and they certainly won't produce to build inventories. Instead
 they'll downsize by laying off workers, further adding to consumer woes.
 Pessimistic consumer goods manufacturers won't invest in plant expansion, so
 construction companies and manufacturers of production equipment will suffer as
 well.
 All of this will be exacerbated by the reduced willingness of worried lenders to
 provide debt capital, or at least their insistence on higher interest rates to cover the
 increased risks.
 At the extreme, government tax revenues might decline, necessitating restrictive tax
 increases or the troubling growth of deficits.

 It's all a matter of expectations. So when someone says, "psychological influences aside,
 I don't think there'll be much of an impact," I wouldn't give that statement much weight.
 It's entirely understandable that, despite favorable fundamentals, newly chastened
 investors have pulled back into their shells, largely because of the profound effect of a
 downturn in psychology.

 * * *

 In the last few weeks, investors have learned some painful lessons. They went from
 feeling they understood exactly what was going on to realizing they merely had been
 carried along in a rosy environment. They learned (1) that they hadn't accurately gauged
 the risks they were taking when they invested in innovative and highly leveraged
 structured entities, (2) that the rating agencies they'd relied on didn't know either, and (3)
 that in understating risk they hadn't demanded enough of a risk premium or sufficient
 protective covenants. They learned the hard way that leverage magnifies losses as well
 as gains. And they learned that negative developments in a far-off corner of the economy
 can affect them profoundly. There's absolutely nothing new in any of this.

 In just the last two weeks, we've seen headlines such as these:

 Subprime Uncertainty Fans Out
 Bear Stearns Tells Investors Funds Worthless
 Crisis Forces Banks to Make Hobson's Choice
 Banks Delay Sale of Chrysler Debt As Market Stalls
 Chrysler, Boots Financing Woes Dim "Golden Era" for Leveraged Buyout Firms
 A Second Day of Declines Caps the Worst Wall Street Week in Years
 Credit Crunch May Derail Buyout Boom; LBOver
 Fears Intensify on Economy, Despite Growth
 Hedge Fund Deleveraging Could Be Next Big Worry

 What these developments mean for the future - and how far this swing toward negative
 events and negative psychology will go - is absolutely unknowable. Is this just a bump
 in the road, like the Asia-related declines that rippled through markets in the second
 quarter of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, from which the recovery was swift? Or are
 these events the first steps toward a major credit crunch that will bring on a recession?
 No one knows, including us.

 But what we do know is that the bull-market excesses I decried in my memo of two
 weeks ago (and in "The New Paradigm" in October and "The Race to the Bottom" in
 February) have reversed for the moment, with profound effects on asset prices. Just as
 risky companies could obtain ridiculously cheap and easy financing a month ago,
 now the debt of perfectly good companies is providing generous promised returns
 and sometimes is unsalable. Oaktree bottom fishers who've felt like they've been
 cooling their heels for the last few years are smiling for a change.

 And mindfulness of cycles is on the way to being restored. When things can't get
 better - as some buyout GPs pointed out earlier this year - they won't. When the
 pendulum reaches the extreme of its arc, it will swing back. When markets are
 priced for perfection, they will disappoint. And when investors demand inadequate
 compensation for bearing risk, they will learn the error of their ways. With the
 word "eventually" implicit in these statements, I'm 100% sure they're all correct.

 I can't say, "This is it," but I am willing to say, "This is more like it." It'll always go
 this way. Investors should learn that simple lesson. But most never will. That's
 what the philosopher Santayana had in mind when he said, "Those who cannot remember
 the past are condemned to repeat it."


Memo: Now It’s All Bad?.

I'm a great believer in the cyclical nature of the markets, but I never cease to be amazed
 at how far they can go in one direction and for how long; the extremes they can reach,
 despite logical arguments to the contrary; and the swiftness of the swing back. It all
 reminds me of a point I made in my second memo, "First Quarter Performance" (April
 1991): Although the midpoint of its arc best describes the location of the pendulum "on
 average," it actually spends very little of its time there. Instead it is almost always
 swinging toward or away from the extremes of its arc.

 Just seven weeks ago, I complained in "It's All Good" that investors were acting as if
 nothing could go wrong. "Priced for perfection" was the concept underlying values, and
 people were more than willing to pay prices set that way.

 Now, of course, the prevailing attitude appears to have swung from "it's all good" to "it's
 all bad." Pessimism has replaced optimism, perhaps also to excess. There are days on
 which no one seems able to tell me how the developing credit crisis might be resolved in
 short order and a full-scale meltdown avoided, and when no one seems able to find a ray
 of sunshine in the current situation (other than bargain hunters).

 It's like the aspiring actor who takes acting classes, waits on tables and hustles auditions
 for a decade . . . and then gets his big break and becomes an "overnight success." Except
 that in this case, having built up great excesses over a period I date from November 2002,
 people are now acting as if this market has become an overnight flop.

 Some of us have been saying for years that a swing back of the market cycle was due, but
 it took a long time to happen (calling to mind, as so often in my case, the dictum that
 "being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong"). This delay
 does a good job of illustrating Lord Keynes's famous observation that "markets can
 remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent."

 Markets can swing in a single direction for a longer period and to a greater extent than
 anyone might expect. That's crowd psychology. But the swing back can be equally
 surprising - in terms of what kicks it off and how fast it moves. I recently came across a
 great quote from Larry Summers: "in economics things happen slower than you expected
 they would but when they finally do, they happen faster than you imagined they could."
 Certainly the recent transition from all good to all bad demonstrates this phenomenon.

 The Virtuous Circle
 U

 The financial world seems to have melted down in just a few weeks. But the truth is, the
 seeds of the crisis have been growing for years - unnoticed by most - as a seemingly
 virtuous circle spun unabated.

 Henry Kissinger was a member of TCW's board when I worked there, and a few times
 each year I was privileged to hear him hold forth on world affairs. Someone would ask,
 "Henry, can you explain yesterday's events in Bosnia?" and he'd say, "Well, in 1722 . . ."
 The point is that chain reaction-type events can only be understood in the context of that
 which went before. The challenge is figuring out how far back to go. In talking about
 how the market got to its current condition, I'll just look back five years.

 Everyone remembers the last corporate debt crisis, during the summer of 2002.
 Recession, credit crunch, 9/11, Afghanistan, the telecom meltdown, and scandals at
 Enron and the like combined to make bonds available at ridiculously high yields. Those
 who were willing to buy had an opportunity to earn ultra-high returns with what turned
 out to be very little risk.

 Around the beginning of November 2002, however, it felt like a switch was thrown.
 Maybe distressed debt managers who hadn't been aggressive enough during the summer
 concluded they had to get invested before year-end. For whatever reason, bond prices
 started to rise. Our active distressed debt funds gained 20% that month, and the markets
 never looked back. Investors in all asset classes forgot the panic that had gripped them
 just a few months earlier and became preoccupied with making money.

 Because only modest returns were expected from high grade bonds (with their 4-5%
 yields) and U.S. common stocks (following the 2000-02 bear market), investors sought
 solutions in non-traditional investments with brief track records at best, and thus little or
 no clarity regarding the risks involved.

 Vast sums flowed to hedge funds, and thousands of new ones were formed. High yield
 bonds and leveraged loans began to be issued again . . . because now there were buyers.
 This enabled buyouts to be financed and then recapitalized, and quick payouts to equity
 holders resulted in eye-popping IRRs, attracting more capital to buyout funds. Real
 estate attracted vast amounts of capital, too, even when "cap rates" - current cash yields -
 sunk below 5%; what could be better than a tangible asset providing inflation protection?

 Borrowing power became virtually unlimited, as is often the case when providers of
 capital are eager to put money to work. Thus the financial environment reflected (1) a
 vast ability to leverage, (2) an uninhibited search for return, and (3) investors competing
 to make investments by accepting lower returns and decreased safety. This combination
 supported new investment techniques, which grew rapidly despite being untested.
 Securitization, tranching and selling onward were employed extensively, often in
 combination. For investors seeking high returns in a low-return world, leverage
 seemed to hold the answer, and it was used in ways never seen

 before. Collateralized loan obligations and collateralized debt obligations, for example,
 grew practically unchecked. These debt factories bought up vast amounts of raw material
 - in the form of underlying portfolio assets - in order to generate a salable product.

 The bottom line of it all: high leverage, untested vehicles and inadequate
 preparedness for adverse developments. Little awareness of risk, low credit
 standards, slender risk premiums and little margin for error. In short, a recipe for
 possible disaster.

 The Vicious Circle
 U

 It's easy to explain what happens at this point in the typical market cycle:
 eventually, everything goes the other way. That's exactly what happened this summer.

 There's a bump in the road. It doesn't matter what it is, and it's usually different each
 time. This year the problem occurred in the field of subprime mortgages. There was a
 surprising rise in delinquencies, the immediate effect of which was limited to a small
 segment of the economy and the few investors who'd bought securities backed by these
 loans. In the months leading up to July, the impact went largely undetected outside the
 subprime arena.

 But from time to time in the investment world, a chain reaction is set off - maybe
 you'd say a "tipping point" is reached - which causes one sort of problem to create
 others and to cascade from one asset class, market or region to others.

 I think the first step toward a broadening-out of the subprime problem came in a few days
 during which rating agencies downgraded hundreds of mortgage-backed securities and
 the debt of CDOs built on them. The repercussions were many and swift. Not only did
 the downgradings have a direct negative effect on mortgage portfolios and their holders,
 but they provided a wake-up call, a shocking reminder of some forgotten realities:

 That risk had been underestimated.
 That things investors thought they knew - truths they held so strongly - they really
 hadn't known at all.
 That elements they had relied on - in this case, debt ratings - had let them down.
 Nothing works, they were reminded, except analysis that is first-hand, in-depth and
 superior.

 Then there were the holders' problems. Bear Stearns, for example, announced significant
 losses in two of its hedge funds, as falling prices for subprime holdings rendered
 collateral inadequate and margin calls eliminated maneuvering room. A few days later, it
 was reported that the investors' equity was all gone.

 And then there are technical factors. These are developments that encourage selling or
 deter buying but are unrelated to investment fundamentals. A number soon arose:

 Suddenly, market participants realized how hard it can be to value obscure,
 infrequently-traded assets and how much the prices of such assets can diverge from
 their value. In fact, "value" can be an empty concept in times of crisis, when it
 becomes painfully clear that an asset is only worth what it can be sold for. Thus
 people came to question the prices funds were using to value subprime-related
 holdings, as well as the model-derived prices their investment bank creators had
 charged for them.

 Worried about both subprime fundamentals and pricing, and suddenly under
 increased scrutiny, many lenders stopped providing financing. Short-term
 commercial paper, which many investors had used to leverage their subprime-related
 asset investments, became largely impossible to roll over.

 Funds that had promised liquidity to their investors - even some money market funds
 - became worried about their ability to accurately value subprime holdings and sell
 them at fair prices. Thus they suspended withdrawals. What could have a more
 traumatic effect on investor confidence?

 Where leverage was withdrawn, margin calls arrived, or funds had to meet actual or
 feared withdrawals, holders of subprime assets became forced sellers. Few things
 have a more devastating effect on investment performance.

 Metastasis
 U

 The fundamental, psychological and technical influences described above devastated the
 market for subprime investments, of course, but they also spread quickly to other assets
 and markets and metastasized into new forms of trouble.

 Investor psychology turned in all markets, even those totally unconnected to subprime
 loans. Caution replaced optimism. Risk aversion took over from risk tolerance (or risk-
 blindness). Skepticism and the concept of capital preservation were resurrected.
 Concern over being under-invested gave way to fear of buying too soon. Cash came to
 be viewed as a source of security and buying power, not a drag on results. All over the
 investment world, people started to think more about what can go wrong rather than what
 can go right. In short, the things that contributed to the virtuous circle began to be
 reversed, in ways that were unimaginable just two months ago.

 Bridge financing for buyouts represents an outstanding example. Buyouts were an area
 of great enthusiasm - and some of the greatest excesses, I think - in the 2002-07 up leg:

 Vast sums were raised in buyout funds, likely increasing the managers' motivation to
 buy companies.
 Purchase prices for target companies were lifted by stock market strength, bidding
 wars and the demands of stockholders and boards.

 Acceptable debt/equity ratios - and thus the prices funds were willing to pay for
 companies - increased as the cost of debt financing fell.
 Companies became even more leveraged as recapitalizations allowed debt to replace
 equity on post-acquisition balance sheets.

 Although purchase prices and leverage ratios were rising rapidly, the banks were ready
 and willing to "bridge" - or accept the risk involved in completing - future financings for
 buyouts. Often this came in the form of "staple financing," through which banks enabled
 buyers to include committed financing as a component of their bids. As of a month ago,
 banks had committed to supply $277 billion of financing for buyouts, a figure that omits
 equity bridges (promises to raise some of the equity required in a buyout) as well as non-
 U.S. transactions. These bridges have become one of the big stories of 2007.

 Prior to July, investors competed to put money to work despite rising buyout prices,
 increasing leverage ratios, declining yield spreads and weaker terms and covenants. The
 banks counted on this eagerness in extending their financing commitments, and for years
 they were not disappointed.

 But then the negative developments in subprime mortgages reminded investors about
 risk.

 The sight of funds melting down and suspending withdrawals was sobering.
 Worry about the economic impact of falling home prices and less buoyant consumer
 spending became pervasive.
 In this new, chastened environment, investors who'd bought CLO and CDO debt
 realized they had put too much faith in favorable ratings and thus were in trouble.
 This caused their appetite for debt to dry up.
 Bond pricing and terms no longer seemed adequate - and the risk associated with
 declining to purchase a new issue no longer loomed so large.

 In short, in the unique way in which markets can turn from red-hot to frigid, potential
 buyers lost interest in the financings the banks had committed to place. And so the
 bridges became "hung." The banks recognize that this isn't par paper anymore, and thus
 they're likely to accept discount bids to clear it off their balance sheets. Observers
 describe this process by saying "risk has been repriced." They mean investors now
 realize they've been accepting inadequate compensation for bearing risk and are
 insisting on more. "Risk repricing" is a good term for what's happening.

 Clearly this phenomenon isn't limited to subprime debt and bridge financings. In fact,
 the complete list of impacted securities, markets and participants is staggeringly long and
 diverse:

 subprime loans, and thus large amounts of residential mortgage-backed securities and
 CDO debt,
 money market funds that experienced losses in subprime-backed paper and were
 forced to freeze redemptions,

 Alt-A mortgages - not subprime, but similarly weak on documentation,
 mortgage lenders,
 commercial mortgage-backed securities, not because rents or property values are
 down, but because these securities may be held by residential mortgage investors
 forced to raise cash,
 bridge financings - and with them the likelihood of future buyouts looking anything
 like those of the recent past,
 the investment and commercial banks that committed to the bridges,
 the stocks of target companies in announced buyouts that are shaky as to completion
 and/or likely to be renegotiated,
 merger arbitrageurs, or "risk arbs," who assumed the risk of these deals failing to be
 consummated as announced,
 others who bet that good times and low volatility would continue, and that probable
 things would happen and improbable things wouldn't. These include sellers of put
 options and credit default insurance,
 "quant firms" that built highly leveraged portfolios with help from models that
 extrapolated past market behavior,
 hedge funds and other leveraged investors in a wide variety of fields that pursued
 "spread" or "carry" trades using large amounts of borrowed money (more on this
 later),
 banks (e.g., Germany's IKB) and fund managers (e.g., Carlyle and KKR) that formed
 highly leveraged subsidiaries that would employ extensive leverage in the pursuit of
 profit,
 anyone dependent on issuing commercial paper or other forms of short-term debt to
 finance leveraged investments, and
 CLOs and CDOs, their investors, and those who depended on them to continue
 buying debt providing inadequate risk compensation.

 The list of affected areas is long and could grow longer. On bad days, losses on U.S.
 stocks, European stocks and emerging market stocks all are attributed to the credit
 crunch. Exchange rate swings - and strength in the yen in particular - are blamed on
 declining use of the carry trade, a regular feature of which was borrowing at low rates in
 Japan and investing for more elsewhere. And the other day, I read that lower profits at
 London investment banks will likely result in smaller bonuses for investment bankers . . .
 and thus in lower prices for London real estate.

 How could investors in the areas listed above have expected that a crisis in subprime
 mortgages would affect them this way? Who would have guessed, for example, that low-
 grade mortgage delinquencies would depress returns on risk arb funds? The New York
 Times of August 18 described A Demon of Our Own Design, by Richard Bookstaber (see
 "Investment Miscellany," November 2000) as pointing out that "the proliferation of
 complex financial products like derivatives, combined with use of leverage to bolster
 returns, will inevitably mean that there will be a regular stream of market contagions like
 the one we're having now - one of which, someday, could be calamitous."

 This pattern of contagion exemplifies the hidden fault lines that I say can run
 through portfolios and - like construction flaws in California homes - become
 apparent only during infrequent catastrophes. But their invisibility most of the time
 doesn't mean they're not there. The existence of these common threads is one of the
 things that make it difficult to predict the correlation between assets, one of the key
 ingredients in intelligent portfolio construction. And it's a good reason to attach a
 significant premium to managers with alpha, or superior investment insight and skill.

 Leverage and Liquidity
 U

 It's clear that when the story of 2002-07 is written, leverage and liquidity will be
 among the main players. For much of the last few years, we saw a vast appetite for
 securities. It created enormous demand for - and pushed up prices of - real estate- and
 asset-backed paper, CLO and CDO debt, buyout funds, hedge funds, high yield bonds
 and leveraged loans. In fact, there seemed to be unlimited demand for non-mainstream
 investments. With all that money to put to work, few potential buyers refrained from
 participating in an upswing that some observers thought lacked a sufficient raison d'être,
 reasonable limits and adequate risk compensation.

 One of the factors contributing most strongly to that demand was an ability to
 borrow excessive amounts, for questionable purposes, on loose terms and at a low
 cost. It was a result of the unattractiveness of yields on high grade debt . . . which
 stemmed largely from the Fed's campaign to lower interest rates in order to mitigate the
 depressant effect of the stock market slump and recession. It was abetted by the fact that
 after a few years of good results, many people forget how money is lost.

 Extensive use of leverage was behind many of the gains of the last few years, and it is at
 the root of many of the problems being suffered today.

 If I mistake not, the distress . . . was produced by an enemy more
 formidable than hostile armies; by a pestilence more deadly than fever or
 plague; by a visitation more destructive than the frosts of Spring or the
 blights of Summer. I believe that it was caused by a mountain load of
 DEBT.

 Flowery commentary on the crisis of 2007? No; according to the Financial Times, the
 quote from T.E. Burton's Crises and Depressions refers to events that occurred in 1857.
 The point is that leverage is nothing new, and neither are its deleterious effects.

 There are numerous reasons to use debt to leverage results, and none of them is likely to
 evaporate any time soon:

 1. Hope springs eternal, as my mother used to say, and greed usually drives markets.
 Thus any tool that has the power to magnify gains is very tempting.

 2. Of course, leverage can magnify losses as well as gains. But investors make
 investments because they expect them to work, not fail, and thus the attraction of
 magnified gains far outweighs the fear of magnified losses.
 3. Long-term bonds almost always offer higher yields than short-term debt, and
 riskier investments invariably seem to promise higher returns than safe ones.
 For these reasons, using short-term borrowings to finance lower grade and/or
 longer-term investments invariably appears likely to produce positive returns.
 4. Most seductively, the incremental risk entailed in investments that are slightly longer
 in term or slightly lower in quality usually appears quite small. For this reason,
 these trades seem safe - but that doesn't mean they can't be rendered extremely
 risky when leveraged up enough.
 5. Of course, when an upward cycle is generating strong returns and making risk
 aversion recede, the equation becomes even more attractive. In the FT column that
 provided the above quotation, John Authers describes the regular pattern of good
 times, easy credit, increasing leverage and eventual crashes. I don't see that ever
 changing.

 It's for these reasons - and especially #4 - that highly leveraged positions are at the
 root of most fund collapses. Long-Term Capital Management, the Granite Fund,
 Amaranth Advisors, the two Bear Stearns funds, Sowood Alpha Fund and Basis Yield
 Alpha Fund were all marked by "safe" positions leveraged to the sky. And they all
 melted down.

 In a number of ways, perpetuation of the market conditions of the last few years was
 dependent on several assumptions about liquidity:

 that investors with liquidity would be eager to put it to work,
 that providers of capital would make liquidity available, meaning that leveraged
 investors would be able to maintain their portfolio holdings and buy more,
 that securities markets would remain liquid, such that holdings could always be sold
 at prices close to their intrinsic value, and
 that funds would therefore be able to keep the promise of liquidity that they'd made
 to their investors.

 In short, it was assumed that liquidity would continue to flow in the direction of
 leveraged investment funds (in the form of financing and incremental capital
 commitments) rather than away (in the form of margin calls and investor
 withdrawals). Two or three months ago the world was described daily as "awash in
 liquidity." Where is it now?

 Investments requiring nothing more than the perpetuation of favorable market
 conditions can be very seductive. And they work most of the time . . . until the pit
 has been dug deep enough, the branches have been spread, and everyone has
 forgotten about the existence of risk.

 The investment environment of the last few years could have been negatively impacted
 by the removal of any one of the elements of liquidity listed above. But if you look at the
 list, it becomes clear that they're highly interrelated. Weakening one assumption could
 render the others less reliable. And, in truth, a single exogenous development - such as a
 major decline in psychology - could simultaneously harm them all. That's the main story
 of the last few weeks.

 Investments costing many times the investor's equity. Dependence on unreliable
 short-term financing. Susceptibility to margin calls or capital withdrawals. Assets
 that can become unsalable at a moment's notice. Prices that can collapse because
 the markets are thin and everyone wants out at the same time. The formula is
 simple and the results are predictable. Not every fund that's so disposed collapses,
 but the potential's always there - with borrowing to buy at its core.

 Fundamental problems are present in most investment conflagrations, but exposure to
 excessive leverage and disappearing liquidity is often the accelerant. As
 breakingviews.com (my new favorite) put it in The Wall Street Journal of August 2,
 "The markets may hurt you, but your lenders will finish you off."

 Risk Reduction
 U

 Of the many fairy tales told over the last few years, one of the most seductive - and thus
 dangerous - was the one about global risk reduction. It went this way:

 The risk of economic cycles has been eased by adroit central bank management.
 Because of globalization, risk has been spread worldwide rather than concentrated
 geographically.
 Securitization and syndication have distributed risk to many market participants
 rather than leaving it concentrated with just a few.
 Risk has been "tranched out" to the investors best able to bear it.
 Leverage has become less risky because interest rates and debt terms are so much
 more borrower-friendly.
 Leveraged buyouts are safer because the companies being bought are fundamentally
 stronger.
 Risk can be hedged by long/short and absolute return investing and through the use of
 derivatives designed for that purpose.
 Improvements in computers, mathematics and modeling have made the markets better
 understood and thus less risky.

 As described in "It's All Good . . . Really?" I thought many things that hinted at risk
 reduction actually had the effect of decreasing understanding and increasing risk. Up to
 July, all we read about was the beneficial nature of these developments. Now, with the
 benefit of hindsight, these are the judgments of our leading business periodicals:

 A system designed to distribute and absorb risk might, instead, have bred it, by
 making it so easy for investors to buy complex securities they didn't fully
 understand. (The Wall Street Journal, August 7)
 [Loans] are now often bundled into securities that are sold in pieces to
 investors around the world, changing hands many times. It spreads risk,
 which policy makers believe keeps the overall financial system sound and
 stable. But the downside to this system could be serious. (WSJ, August
 "The market appears to be finding it harder to truly understand the
 inherent and underlying risks involved," [according to Chris Rexworthy, a
 former regulator with Britain's FSA]. The backlash is particularly sharp
 abroad, in countries that were surprised to find that problems with United
 States homeowners could be felt so keenly in their home markets. (New
 York Times, August 31)
 "Low volatility has created complacency, and that has translated into
 poorly structured derivative markets," says Randall Dodd, director of the
 Financial Policy Forum . . . The low volatility world of the past few years
 may have worsened the situation, leading to lax lending standards for
 derivative investors. (WSJ, August 2)
 It is estimated that there are seven times as many credit derivatives
 outstanding as there are outstanding bonds. You need to ask the question:
 is risk being transferred or created? Are the new gladiators hedging with
 derivatives or just leveraging up? (Jeff Pantages in Pensions &
 Investments, August 20)

 An apt metaphor came from Pension & Investments: "Jill Fredston is a nationally
 recognized avalanche expert . . . She knows about a kind of moral hazard risk, where
 better safety gear can entice climbers to take more risk - making them in fact less safe."
 Like opportunities to make money, the degree of risk present in a market derives
 from the behavior of the participants, not from securities, strategies and institutions.
 Regardless of what's designed into market structures, risk will be low only if
 investors behave prudently.

 The bottom line is that tales like this one about risk control rarely turn out to be
 true. Risk cannot be eliminated; it just gets transferred and spread. And
 developments that make the world look less risky usually are illusory, and thus in
 presenting a rosy picture they tend to make the world more risky. These are among
 the important lessons of 2007.

 Other Lessons Not Learned
 U

 In addition to the above, a number of other recurring themes can be seen as underlying
 the recent difficulties. Here are a few:

 Belief in market efficiency - Although academics say the actions of intelligent
 U U

 investors cause assets to be priced right, I often find prices screwy. Rather than
 increasing market efficiency, improvements in computer and communications
 technology may have made the markets even more unstable. As my partner Sheldon
 Stone says, it's like a cruise ship where everyone is told to stand on the port side.
 Then everyone simultaneously gets a message telling them to run to starboard. It
 makes for a rocky crossing. The New York Times wrote on August 17 that
 "Information may arrive instantly, but insight takes longer." Certainly the cycles
 don't seem any less volatile than they used to be, or the extremes any less irrational.
 In fact, in recent years, over-reliance on market efficiency may have kept people from
 questioning asset prices.

 Inefficacy of models - Quant funds invest according to models that extrapolate past
 U U

 patterns, operated by people who know computers and probabilities, not investment
 fundamentals. But models can't tell you when past market behavior has been
 irrational (and thus unreliable), and they can't predict when those patterns will
 change. They lead to investments that "would have worked almost all the time in the
 past," but it's amazing how often we see them derailed by once-in-a-lifetime events.
 Matthew Rothman of Lehman Brothers has become famous for saying in early
 August that "events that models only predicted would happen once in 10,000 years
 happened every day for three days." Are those models you want to bet on?

 Di-worst-ification - Warren Buffett harps on the folly of branching out into things
 U U

 you know less about solely for the purpose of increasing the number of baskets in
 which you have your eggs. Investing in things about which you aren't expert doesn't
 reduce risk, it increases it. And I think it's particularly unwise to finance
 diversification with borrowed money.

 Conflicts between managers and clients - Investors should look very closely at the
 U U

 alignment of their managers' interests with their own. The mere fact that a manager
 is working for incentive compensation, or has money in his fund, isn't enough.
 Recent events have shed some unusual - and provocative - light on the question of
 alignment. Consider Sowood Capital, which lost half of its investors' capital, sold off
 its portfolio in a block and closed down. Why did the loss of half the LPs' equity
 occasion a liquidation? Might further losses have activated a clawback of previous
 years' incentive fees? And might the interests of a manager with 100% of his net
 worth in his fund have diverged from the interests of LPs who invested 1% of theirs?
 I'm just speculating from the sidelines without knowledge of the facts in this
 situation, but I wonder whether this doesn't show that to protect their own investment
 in their funds, managers can be driven to take actions that damage their LPs.

 The unreliability of ratings - Many investors act in reliance on ratings, and some
 U U

 require ratings before taking actions they're considering. But ratings must be taken
 with a big grain of salt. In fact, a lot of my career (and Oaktree's success) has
 been based on conviction that the rating agencies are often wrong. They
 routinely rate securities too high when things are going well, and then overcorrect

 when problems surface. It's instructive to note that a lot of CDO debt built on
 subprime mortgages received triple-A ratings, many of which already have required
 downward adjustment. And that rating agencies helped CDO managers design
 structures so they would receive the desired rating. And that managers would run a
 structure past a few agencies and hire the one that arrived at the highest rating. And
 that ratings are paid for by those sponsoring the securities being rated, something
 which sounds like a trial where the defendant picks and pays the judge.

 All of these paragraphs highlight errors made by investors this time around . . . of a type
 that always will be made (but with variations on the theme). The lesson isn't to distrust
 managers, or models, or ratings, or diversification, or market efficiency.

 What investors must learn - but most will not - is that there's no easy answer,
 surefire tool or silver bullet. Lots of tools will help when applied thoughtfully, but
 they'll bring harm otherwise - with the additional risk that excessive reliance on them
 will increase the damage done when they turn out to be unavailing. Certainly none of
 the highly-touted things discussed above held the answer this time around. Only
 truly superior skill, discipline and integrity are likely to produce consistently high
 returns in the long run with limited risk.

 My advice: expect CEOs, regulators, rating agencies and other market participants to
 make mistakes. Expect things to go wrong and cycles to swing to extremes and then
 recover. Worry about outcomes, and hire worriers. Doing these things is sure to stand
 between you and top returns in up-cycles, but it will deliver some degree of safety when
 things turn bad. Ensuring the protection of capital under adverse circumstances is
 incompatible with maximizing returns in good times, and thus investors must
 choose between the two. That's the real lesson. The things discussed above are just
 a few of the details.

 What Next?

 Lots of people are asking whether this is going to get ugly. Is this the beginning of a
 credit crunch? Will it lead to a recession? How bad will it get? When will the bottom be
 reached? How long will the recovery take? The answer's simple: no one knows.

 Some of the psychological and technical preconditions for a challenging market
 environment have been met. The bubble of positive investor psychology has been
 pricked and could become seriously deflated. When others are aggressive, we should
 be worried, but when others are worried, we can be confident. That's the essence of
 contrarianism, and by that standard these are better times.

 The easy-money machine has had some sand thrown in its gears and seems to be grinding
 to a halt. Previously, anyone could get any amount of money for any purpose. Right
 now, deserving borrowers are unable to obtain financing, and this could continue or get
 worse.

 The outlook for the economy is murky, as usual. It continues to limp along, not growing
 strongly but not sagging. The big question surrounds the effect of the subprime crisis on
 consumers. Home prices are through rising. Home equity borrowing is probably
 finished for a while as a supporter of consumer spending. Ditto for the "wealth effect."
 The reset of adjustable rate mortgages from artificially low teaser rates to full market
 rates over the next 18-24 months is likely to have a depressing effect on a large number
 of households, and thus on the economy. I would think furniture and auto manufacturers,
 building materials suppliers, retailers and financial institutions have seen their best days
 for a while. I consider the economy unpredictable, of course, and thus a lot of people's
 answers will be more definite than mine. But not necessarily more correct.

 Everyone's looking to the Fed to take action. Its last act - cutting the discount rate on
 August 17 - was largely symbolic but had a positive effect. A reduction of the federal
 funds rate would mean more, telling investors the Fed's there to help, cutting the cost of
 borrowing and stimulating the economy. But it wouldn't do much for banks' balance
 sheets or willingness to lend.

 It's my view that Bernanke would rather not cut rates. Stimulative action that looked like
 an investor bailout would contribute further to moral hazard and the expectation that the
 Fed will always protect investors on the downside. This is an unhealthy expectation, as
 each bailout encourages risk taking and thus increases the likelihood that another will be
 needed. But the Fed is being importuned for a rate cut, and there are few people to argue
 on the other side, for a good dose of unpleasant medicine.

 I'm usually cautious, so I might as well keep my record intact. The economy should
 weaken. Deals built on optimistic assumptions and paid for with a lot of borrowed
 money shouldn't all thrive. Generous capital markets should not be expected to bail out
 ailing companies. Bargain hunters and distressed debt investors will have more to do.
 Eventually. But no one at Oaktree would advise you to act as if these views are sure to
 be correct. We certainly won't.

 * * *

 An observation I made last October regarding the meltdown of Amaranth, in "Pigweed,"
 T

 is equally applicable to the recent problems:

 Orin [Kramer] notes that Amaranth "occurred when the skies were blue;
 T

 the fund unraveled because a small and volatile commodity behaved in an
 unpredicted fashion." This collapse didn't require an adverse economic
 environment or a market crash. The combination of arrogance, failure to
 understand and allow for risk, and a small adverse development can be
 enough to wreak havoc. It can happen to anyone who doesn't spend
 the time and effort required to understand the processes underlying
 his portfolio.

 Certainly the magnitude of this summer's crisis has been out of proportion to its
 underlying fundamental cause: the increase in subprime delinquencies. Instead, a
 standard combination has proved perfectly incendiary:

 underlying greed,
 good returns in the up-leg of the cycle,
 euphoria and complacency,
 a free-and-easy credit market,
 Wall Street's inventiveness and salesmanship, and
 investors' naiveté.

 This formula often results in crushing losses. Or as Marc Faber put it, a surplus of
 cash leads to a shortage of sense.

 An obscure economist named Hyman Minsky is having his fifteen minutes of fame in the
 current environment. Here's how The Wall Street Journal summarized his views on
 August 18:

 When times are good, investors take on risk; the longer those times stay
 good, the more risk they take on, until they've taken on too much.
 Eventually they reach a point where the cash generated by their assets no
 longer is sufficient to pay off the mountains of debt they took on to
 acquire them. Losses on such speculative assets prompt lenders to call in
 their loans. "This is likely to lead to a collapse of asset values," Mr.
 Minsky wrote. When investors are forced to sell even their less-
 speculative positions to make good on their loans, markets spiral lower
 and create a severe demand for cash.

 The foregoing aptly describes the current cycle. . . and, I think, the way things always are.
 It certainly seems inevitable that, eventually, investment merit becomes overpriced, and
 the combination of good results and easy money causes dangerous leverage to be
 employed in the pursuit of profit.

 When will market cycles be banished or made more muted? That'll happen when
 greed, human failings and herd behavior are eliminated. Or, in other words, never.
 In "You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." I wrote of cycles that success carries within
 itself the seeds of failure, and failure carries the seeds of success. It'll always be so.


Memo: No Different This Time – The Lessons of ‘07.

On July 16, I published a memo called "It's All Good." I wrote it while on vacation in
 late June and early July, and then it took a week after my return to get it out. It reviewed
 the excesses that had occurred in the preceding few years and the extent to which people
 were overlooking them, thinking instead that everything was ideal and would stay that
 way. It discussed the recurring tendency of investors in bullish times to feel that "it's
 different this time" - that the process which caused past cyclical highs to correct
 wouldn't apply in the current instance.

 The bullish balloon remained unpunctured as of July 16, and some may have thought my
 memo unduly pessimistic. It's a good thing it didn't take another week or two to put it
 out, however, because by July 30, things had started to go bad, set off by defaults among
 subprime mortgages and downgrades of securities based on them.

 "An isolated development," the bulls replied, as is usual when the first crack in the
 dam appears. It's hard to believe that less than five months later, the effects are
 widespread, significant losses have been registered, and negativism has taken over from
 euphoria. No one doubts that we're in the throes of a full-fledged credit crunch. But in
 that way, it truly is no different this time.

 Investor Behavior in a Low-Return Market
 U

 Each player must accept the cards life deals him or her. But once they are
 in hand, he or she alone must decide how to play the cards in order to win
 the game.

 I found that quote on the wall of a Melbourne, Australia coffee shop last month, with an
 attribution to Voltaire. I was struck immediately by its applicability to the financial
 markets. As I've pointed out in the past, we must never overlook the need to deal with
 the investment environment as it is. The environment is the product of natural
 phenomena as well as the decisions made by millions of "economic units" such as
 consumers, investors, companies and nations. We are presented with it, and no one of us
 can alter it. What matters is what we do with it.

 To succeed as investors, we must recognize the environment for what it is and act
 accordingly. In any given environment, some actions will lead to success and others to
 failure. Which is which varies greatly over time. Our first task as investors is to assess
 the environment and map a course which is appropriate for it.

 As I noted a few years ago, (see "Risk and Return Today," October 2004) we were living
 in a low-return world. The prospective returns offered on traditionally safe investments
 were low in the absolute. Moving out on the risk curve added little to expected returns;
 i.e., risk premiums were in many cases at record lows. Overall, then, the Capital Market
 Line - the risk/return curve - was "low and flat." In all, the rewards offered for risk
 bearing were paltry.

 So what was an investor to do in that low-return world? You could make your usual
 investments and accept returns below those you're used to, perhaps deciding to allocate
 your capital for the long term and ignore the short term. Or you could decline to invest
 and hold cash instead, despite the fact that the expected return for doing so is invariably
 the lowest. Or - as I think most people did - you could reject the low returns available
 on your usual investments and go for more. That is, you could insist on achieving high
 returns in a low-return world. But insisting on them is one thing, and positioning your
 portfolio to get them is another. How might the latter be accomplished?

 The answer is simple: many reached for return. Primarily that meant making
 riskier investments or using leverage to increase the capital at risk (or both). That's
 the main story of the last few years, and the reason behind the jam the markets are
 in today.

 So What Happened?
 U

 As I wrote in "Risk and Return Today," in recent years investors did things they'd never
 done before - or hadn't done as much of - because they wanted more than the 4-5% they
 could get in high grade bonds and the 6-7% they felt they could expect from U.S.
 equities. They put more into hedge funds, for example, and their commitments expanded
 the largest buyout funds from $3-5 billion to $20 billion-plus in just a year or two.

 Investors succumbed to the siren song of leverage. They borrowed cheap short-term
 funds - the shorter the cheaper (you can get money cheap if you're willing to pledge
 assets and promise repayment monthly). And they used that money to buy assets that
 offered higher returns because they entailed illiquidity and/or fundamental risk. And
 institutional investors all over the world took Wall Street up on the newest promises of
 two "silver bullets" that would provide high returns with low risk: securitization and
 structure.

 On the surface, these investments made sense. They promised satisfactory absolute
 returns, as the returns on the leveraged purchases would more than pay the cost of capital.
 The results would be great . . . as long as nothing untoward happened.

 But, as usual, the pursuit of profit led to mistakes. The expected returns looked good, but
 the range of possible outcomes included some very nasty ones. The success of many

 techniques and structures depended on the future looking like the past. And many of the
 "modern miracles" that were relied on were untested.

 A Dearth of Skepticism
 U

 Unlike market bottoms, where investors are too skeptical, during upswings most
 people believe too much, worry too little and fail to apply enough skepticism. Since
 all investors want a good deal - and see the people around them making money so easily
 - they tend to jump aboard. They want to see the good times roll on, not to pour cold
 water on the party by questioning what's going on.

 Everyone dreams of easy riches - of high returns earned without risk. Wall Street comes
 up with surefire solutions to which the hopeful flock, such as portfolio insurance in the
 1980s and dot-com IPOs in the 1990s. In the current decade, investors became convinced
 that securitized mortgages and highly leveraged entities offered the magic solution.
 People who long ago stopped believing in Santa Claus jumped aboard, and now they're
 disappointed. But past results never deter new generations of dreamers from chasing the
 next silver bullet.

 In the last few years, people accepted myths that now have been exposed. Let's review a
 few:

 In 2006-07, we heard a lot of talk to the effect that disintermediation had reduced
 risk. Because lending banks were moving loans off their books through syndication
 to other banks and non-bank lenders alike, the risk residing at any one bank - and
 thus in the financial system as a whole - had been reduced. Of course, the feeling
 that the world had become a safer place led many participants to take on more risk
 than they otherwise would. And where are we seeing the biggest losses reported?
 At those supposedly safer banks.

 A lot of people have lost money as a result of excessive reliance on credit ratings.
 How is it, for example, that investors are showing up with such large losses on
 mortgage-related CDO debt? Well, rather than accept the low yields on AA-rated
 corporate bonds, they went for the AA-rated tranches from CDOs . . . because they
 offered higher yields. But wait a minute! More yield for the same quality? A
 free lunch? Not likely. Maybe the buyers relied too much on ratings in lieu of their
 own due diligence. Maybe the credit rating agencies didn't fully understand the debt
 under review, or had biases which led to too-high ratings. Maybe they didn't intend
 the AA rating on CDO debt to mean the same thing as an AA rating on corporate
 debt. And maybe the rating-agency analysts lacked the above-average skills that are
 needed to add value in the investment world; if they possessed them, wouldn't they
 be spending their time more lucratively as investors?

 Perhaps most telling, it seems people were willing to drink up without asking,
 "Who's paying the tab?" Take the CDO creation process: Acting on behalf of a

 mortgage company, a mortgage broker made a loan. The mortgage company sold the
 loan to an investment bank. The investment bank packaged it into a residential
 mortgage-backed security and sold it to a CDO originator. The originator packaged it
 into a CDO, having raised the money for the CDO through sales of debt to
 institutional investors. The sale of the debt was facilitated by a placement agent or
 investment bank. I count at least five parties who got paid each time a mortgage loan
 was placed, securitized and distributed. Someone was paying a lot of fees. Even if
 the original mortgage loan was priced reasonably at the beginning, is it possible
 the CDO debt was fairly priced at the end? Wall Street's answer is simple: The
 overall process may have been heavily laden with fees, but the individual tranches
 were attractive. Huh? Few people looked at the multiple fees and asked if the deals
 could withstand paying so many middlemen. In 2003-07, they didn't feel the need.

 Widespread failings of skepticism are significant in two ways. Individually, each one
 represents a way to lose money through an ill-considered investment. And collectively,
 they're indicative of the market climate. In times of excess on the upside, fairy tales gain
 currency and encourage risk taking. And then they are debunked, as is happening today.
 Or as Warren Buffett puts it, "when the tide goes out, we find out who's been
 swimming without a bathing suit." This time around, the answer is "lots of people."

 The Magic of Leverage

 It's obvious that the key element in many of the errors that tripped up investors this
 time around was cheap and easy credit, utilized without much awareness of risk. An
 oversupply of capital looking for a home in non-traditional investments caused vast sums
 to be pushed into mortgage loans at low-cost teaser rates to un-creditworthy homebuyers
 who often weren't required to document their incomes. It let hedge funds bulk up on the
 carry trade and buyout funds bid enough to acquire world-class companies, taking on
 enough leverage to target high expected returns. And it was the building block
 supporting CLOs, CDOs, CDO2s, conduits, SIVs and other highly leveraged entities.

 The Fed delivered cheap credit for the best of reasons: to counter the depressing effects
 of the emerging market crisis, 9/11, the tech bubble bust, the first three-year stock market
 decline since the Depression, Y2K, the telecom meltdown, concern about deflation, and
 whatever else was on its mind. Interest rates were the lowest most of us had ever seen,
 anchored by 1% on cash. The low rates both (a) drove down returns on investments at
 the safe end of the risk curve and (b) provided the fuel for elevated risk taking.

 One must never forget that leverage doesn't make investments better; it just
 magnifies the gains and losses. Since most investments have a positive expected value,
 meaning that gains are expected on average, leverage has the effect of appearing to
 enhance the expected return. And most of the time, that works just fine.

 But once in a while, something goes awry. Maybe asset prices go so high they become
 unsupportable. Maybe the analysis behind an investment proves to have been faulty.

 Maybe an exogenous event negatively influences asset prices or funding availability or
 both. And maybe they all happen at once. When the unlikely occurs - when asset prices
 decline unexpectedly - the impact as magnified by leverage can be unbearable, setting off
 a negative chain reaction.

 Falling asset prices cause lenders to shy away from providing credit, and eventually to
 demand repayment. With credit less available, repayment might have to come from asset
 sales, putting additional downward pressure on prices in an already unaccommodating
 market. Prices go down further; confidence worsens; lenders grow more cautious; and
 credit becomes even less available. What used to be a virtuous circle becomes a
 vicious circle. This is how credit crunches occur.

 There is a recurring element in most investor meltdowns. Lured by attractive promised
 returns or spurred on by the perceived inadequacy of unleveraged returns, investors
 borrow short-term capital with which to buy long-term assets. And then eventually
 there comes a bad day, on which the short-term capital flows out (in response to demands
 for repayment, the maturing of borrowings, or investor withdrawals). And on that
 particular day, perhaps (a) the outgoing capital can't be replaced and (b) portfolio assets
 can't be sold at fair prices. Sales, if feasible, may have to be made at prices so low that,
 if all the assets were marked there, the entity's net worth would be negative. That's it:
 meltdown. That's what happened this summer to Bear Stearns's High-Grade Structured
 Credit Strategies Enhanced Leveraged Fund. It happened to Long-Term Capital
 Management in 1998 and to the Granite Fund in 1994. And it'll happen again - because
 financial memory is short and the attraction of leverage can be irresistible.

 Investors must remember that it's not enough that an investment has a good expected
 return, or that the negative outcomes are unlikely. One of the overlooked effects of
 leverage is that it "fattens the tails" - increases the likelihood of extreme outcomes in
 both directions - and worsens the consequences of negative events. Every portfolio or
 investing entity must be examined to make sure it will be able to survive that bad
 day - that it has been set up so the interaction of its terms, its borrowings and the
 riskiness of its assets won't cause it to implode. Of course, this leads to the question of
 how negative a set of circumstances we should allow for. Each investor's degree of risk
 averseness will determine what level of negative developments a portfolio should be built
 to withstand. But certainly these are topics that must be considered.

 When I think about investors using leverage to try to wring acceptable results from low-
 return investments, it seems like folly. Let's see: You have $100 to invest, and you
 come across a fundamentally sound investment that yields 6%. But you consider the 6%
 return too low. So rather than buy $100 worth, you borrow another $400 at 5% interest
 and buy $500 worth. If you can borrow at 5% and invest at 6%, each "turn" of leverage
 adds 1% to your expected return. Thus, in addition to the $6 earned on your own $100 of
 capital, you'll earn an additional $1 per $100 of borrowed capital, or $4 on $400. Thus
 the total return on your $100 of capital, leveraged four times, is $10. Voila! That
 inadequate 6% return has been turned into a handsome 10%.

 But wait a minute. Remember, you originally thought the 6% return on the investment
 was too low. What happens when everyone comes to agree that it should be higher?
 Well, the normal way for an investment's prospective return to go up is for its price to
 fall. So now, with help from leverage, you've bought five times as much of an asset
 that's under-returning and due for a price decline. It all reminds me of my friend
 Sandy, whose favorite restaurant review is "the food's terrible, but the portions are
 huge." In this case, it's "the return's inadequate, but thanks to leverage you can
 buy a lot." Is that a good thing?

 Garbage In, Garbage Out
 U

 This expression was in broad circulation 10-20 years ago, but I haven't heard it much
 lately. It's meaning is simple: models and decision-making processes can't produce good
 decisions if they don't begin from valid inputs. Roughly stated, I think all computers can
 do is maintain and search data bases, compare one thing against another, and perform
 calculations. They cannot think (yet).

 I think the importance of this for financial decision makers is that while computers
 can find, verify and extrapolate relationships that have held in the past, they can't
 tell when those relationships will cease to work and what new relationships will take
 their place.

 Put another way, computers know a lot about the past but much less about the
 future. In order for computers - or people lacking foresight, for that matter - to know
 what will happen in the future, they need reliable data regarding the past and an ability to
 expect that the future will be like the past. People were let down in both regards in 2007.

 Most people have heard of "value at risk," or VAR, a worst-case estimate of a portfolio's
 one-day loss potential. The Economist reported on November 1 that on no fewer than 16
 T T

 trading days in the third quarter (a quarter of all the days), UBS's trading losses exceeded
 the VAR calculated the preceding day. In all the preceding years since UBS began to use
 VAR in 1998, there hadn't been one such day . What went wrong? Maybe VAR isn't a
 T

 good measure. Maybe the data UBS used was erroneous. Maybe the model was based
 on a period that was atypical or too short to be statistically significant. Or maybe the
 world changed, invalidating the model.

 In the last few years, financial alchemy led to the creation of large numbers of high-rated
 securities out of pools of low-grade mortgages. Investors relied on the ratings, and I
 suppose the rating agencies relied on default rate assumptions that looked reasonable in
 the light of experience. But they didn't allow for changed circumstances (e.g., for the
 fact that since mortgage initiators no longer risked their own money for long, they had
 stopped making lending decisions the way they used to). It's for reasons like this that
 assumptions can turn out to be inappropriate.

 I'm not saying you can't invest profitably when the inputs are garbage. But only after
 critically assessing the reliability of assumptions can sufficient allowance for risk be built
 in via demands for an appropriate risk premium. In the last few years, people bought
 "safe" securities where they really had little understanding of their workings or
 foundations. The results are now clear.

 I'm Shocked . . . Shocked
 U

 Given that market upswings are often accompanied by insufficient skepticism, it's not
 unusual for lofty expectations to be disappointed. A story on Citibank's results in the
 Wall Street Journal of November 2 contained words such as "unnerved" and "unsettled."
 Few things have a more corrosive effect on investor psychology than disillusionment like
 we're seeing today.

 I remember getting a kick out of an article that ran in the Wall Street Journal around
 1991. After taking big losses in high yield bonds, a mutual fund investor was quoted as
 saying, "I thought I was investing in a high yield bond fund. If I'd known it was a junk
 bond fund, I never would've bought it." It's common for investors to act without
 adequate understanding, and for them to feel betrayed when their hopes are unfulfilled.
 This time they're saying, "It was rated triple-A, and now no one can tell me what it's
 worth."

 The disillusionment has been swift and dramatic (not to mention terrifying). Most CDO
 investors must now realize they had no idea how the mechanisms would work or how
 much risk they were taking. Holders have seen investment grade debt downgraded to
 single-C in a single rating action. Investors in Bear Stearns's High-Grade Structured
 Credit Strategies Enhanced Leveraged Fund lost all their money, finding no protection in
 all those great adjectives. Some assets became unsalable at any reasonable price. A lot
 of asset-backed commercial paper became unrenewable. And $5 billion anticipated
 writedowns turned into $8 billion actual writedowns in just a few weeks.

 In a statement that seems representative of this period, Marcel Rohner, the Chief
 Executive of UBS, said last week the "ultimate value of our subprime holdings . . .
 remains unknowable." I don't doubt that it is, and for that reason his statement calls to
 mind a 2005 memo titled "Hindsight First, Please (or, What Were They Thinking?)."
 Why couldn't investors figure out in advance that the result of these investments were
 unpredictable? What caused them to make investments that now are described that way?
 It truly makes me wonder what they were thinking.

 The Challenge of Managing Risk
 U

 One of the reasons investor confidence has been hit so hard is simply that it was too
 high (as is required for unsustainable market highs to be reached). And much of

 investors' excessive comfort was in the area of risk, where it was roundly believed
 things were under control. But the truth is, it's hard to manage risk.

 As I stated in "Risk" (February 2006), investment risk is largely invisible - before the
 fact, except perhaps to people with unusual insight, and even after an investment has been
 exited. For this reason, many of the great financial disasters we've seen have been
 failures to foresee and manage risk. There are several reasons for this.

 1. Risk exists only in the future, and it's impossible to know for sure what the
 future holds. Or as Peter Bernstein puts it, "Risk means more things can
 happen than will happen . . ." No ambiguity is evident when we view the past.
 Only the things that happened happened. But that definiteness doesn't mean the
 process that creates outcomes is clear-cut and dependable. Many things could
 have happened in each case in the past, and the fact that only one did happen
 understates the variability that existed. What I mean to say (inspired by Nicolas
 Nassim Taleb's Fooled by Randomness) is that the history that took place is only one
 version of what it could have been. If you accept this, then the relevance of history to
 the future is much more limited than may appear to be the case.

 2. Decisions whether or not to bear risk are made in contemplation of normal
 patterns recurring, and they do most of the time. But once in a while, something
 very different happens. Or as my friend (and highly skilled investor) Ric Kayne
 puts it, "Most of financial history has taken place within two standard deviations, but
 everything interesting has occurred outside of two standard deviations." That's what
 happened in 2007. We heard all the time this past summer, "that was a 5-standard
 deviation event," or "that was a 10-sigma event," implying it should have happened
 only once every hundred or thousand or ten thousand years. So how could several
 such events have happened in a single week, as was claimed in August? The answer
 is that the improbability of their happening had been overestimated.

 3. Projections tend to cluster around historic norms and call for only small changes. The
 point is, people usually expect the future to be like the past and underestimate
 the potential for change. In August 1996, I wrote a memo showing that in the Wall
 Street Journal's semi-annual poll of economists, on average the predictions are an
 extrapolation of the current condition. And when I was a young analyst following
 Textron, building my earnings estimates based on projections for its four major
 groups, I invariably found that I had underestimated the extent of both the positive
 surprises and the shortfalls.

 4. We hear a lot about "worst-case" projections, but they often turn out not to be
 negative enough. What forecasters mean is "bad-case projections." I tell my
 father's story of the gambler who lost regularly. One day he heard about a race with
 only one horse in it, so he bet the rent money. Half way around the track, the horse
 jumped over the fence and ran away. Invariably things can get worse than people
 expect. Maybe "worst-case" means "the worst we've seen in the past." But that

 doesn't mean things can't be worse in the future. In 2007, many people's worst-case
 assumptions were exceeded.

 5. Risk shows up lumpily. If we say "2% of mortgages default" each year, and even if
 that's true when we look at a multi-year average, an unusual spate of defaults can
 occur at a point in time, sinking a structured finance vehicle. Ben Graham and David
 Dodd put it this way 67 years ago: ". . .the relation between different kinds of
 investments and the risk of loss is entirely too indefinite, and too variable with
 changing conditions, to permit of sound mathematical formulation. This is
 particularly true because investment losses are not distributed fairly evenly in point of
 time, but tend to be concentrated at intervals . . ." (Security Analysis, 1940 Edition).
 It's invariably the case that some investors - especially those who employ high
 leverage - will fail to survive at those intervals.

 6. People overestimate their ability to gauge risk and understand mechanisms
 they've never before seen in operation. In theory, one thing that distinguishes
 humans from other species is that we can figure out that something's dangerous
 without experiencing it. We don't have to burn ourselves to know we shouldn't
 sit on a hot stove. But in bullish times, people tend not to perform this function.
 Rather than recognize risk ahead, they tend to overestimate their ability to understand
 how new financial inventions will work.

 7. Finally and importantly, most people view risk taking primarily as a way to
 make money. Bearing higher risk generally produces higher returns. The market has
 to set things up to look like that'll be the case; if it didn't, people wouldn't make risky
 investments. But it can't always work that way, or else risky investments wouldn't be
 risky. And when risk bearing doesn't work, it really doesn't work, and people
 are reminded what risk's all about.

 Most of the time, risk bearing works out just fine. In fact, it's often the case that the
 people who take the most risk make the most money. However, there also are times
 when underestimating risk and accepting too much of it can be fatal. Taking too little
 risk can cause you to underperform your peers - but that beats the heck out of the
 consequences of taking too much risk at the wrong time. No one ever went
 bankrupt because of an excess of risk consciousness. But a shortage of it - and the
 imprudent investments it led to - bears responsibility for a lot of what's going on
 now.

 Recapping the Lessons - Nothing New

 The markets are a classroom where lessons are taught every day. The keys to
 investment success lie in observing and learning, which is what I've tried to do in the
 40 years since I got my first job at Citibank.

 I think the credit cycle that began around 2002 will go down as one of the most
 extreme on record and be the subject of discussion for years to come. It is one of the
 most important, potentially most serious financial episodes I've witnessed, and it
 presents a great learning experience. (Of course, it's said that "experience is what you
 got when you didn't get what you wanted.")

 People were blindsided this summer when the financial markets went wobbly in just a
 few weeks on the basis of unhappiness in a remote corner of the mortgage market. But
 nothing that happened should have come as a surprise. While the details of each financial
 crisis may seem new and different, the major themes behind them are usually the same,
 and several were repeated in the current cycle. Not one of the following twelve lessons is
 specific to 2007 or to subprime mortgages or CDOs. And each one is something I've
 seen at work before.

 1. Too much capital availability makes money flow to the wrong places. When
 capital is scarce and in demand, investors are faced with allocation choices regarding
 the best use for their capital, and they get to make their decisions with patience and
 discipline. But when there's too much capital chasing too few ideas, investments will
 be made that do not deserve to be made.

 2. When capital goes where it shouldn't, bad things happen. In times of capital
 market stringency, deserving borrowers are turned away. But when money's
 everywhere, unqualified borrowers are offered money on a silver platter. The
 inevitable results include delinquencies, bankruptcies and losses.

 3. When capital is in oversupply, investors compete for deals by accepting low
 returns and a slender margin for error. When people want to buy something, their
 competition takes the form of an auction in which they bid higher and higher. When
 you think about it, bidding more for something is the same as saying you'll take less
 for your money. Thus the bids for investments can be viewed as a statement of how
 little return investors demand and how much risk they're willing to accept.

 4. Widespread disregard for risk creates great risk. "Nothing can go wrong." "No
 price is too high." "Someone will always pay me more for it." "If I don't move
 quickly, someone else will buy it." Statements like these indicate that risk is being
 given short shrift. This cycle's version saw people think that because they were
 buying better companies or financing with more borrower-friendly debt, buyout
 transactions could support larger and larger amounts of leverage. This caused them to
 ignore the risk of untoward developments and the danger inherent in highly leveraged
 capital structures.

 5. Inadequate due diligence leads to investment losses. The best defense against loss
 is thorough, insightful analysis and insistence on what Warren Buffett calls "margin
 for error." But in hot markets, people worry about missing out, not about losing
 money, and time-consuming, skeptical analysis becomes the province of old fogeys.

 6. In heady times, capital is devoted to innovative investments, many of which fail
 the test of time. Bullish investors focus on what might work, not what might go
 wrong. Eagerness takes over from prudence, causing people to accept new
 investment products they don't understand. Later, they wonder what they could have
 been thinking.

 7. Hidden fault lines running through portfolios can make the prices of seemingly
 unrelated assets move in tandem. It's easier to assess the return and risk of an
 investment than to understand how it will move relative to others. Correlation is
 often underestimated, especially because of the degree to which it increases in crisis.
 A portfolio may appear to be diversified as to asset class, industry and
 geography, but in tough times, non-fundamental factors such as margin calls,
 frozen markets and a general rise in risk aversion can become dominant,
 affecting everything similarly.

 8. Psychological and technical factors can swamp fundamentals. In the long run,
 value creation and destruction are driven by fundamentals such as economic trends,
 companies' earnings, demand for products and the skillfulness of managements. But
 in the short run, markets are highly responsive to investor psychology and the
 technical factors that influence the supply and demand for assets. In fact, I think
 confidence matters more than anything else in the short run. Anything can happen in
 this regard, with results that are both unpredictable and irrational.

 9. Markets change, invalidating models. Accounts of the difficulties of "quant" funds
 center on the failure of computer models and their underlying assumptions. The
 computers that run portfolios primarily attempt to profit from patterns that held true
 in past markets. They can't predict changes in those patterns; they can't anticipate
 aberrant periods; and thus they generally overestimate the reliability of past norms.

 10. Leverage magnifies outcomes but doesn't add value. It can make great sense to
 use leverage to increase your investment in assets at bargain prices offering high
 promised returns or generous risk premiums. But it can be dangerous to use leverage
 to buy more of assets that offer low returns or narrow risk spreads - in other words,
 assets that are fully priced or overpriced. It makes little sense to use leverage to try
 to turn inadequate returns into adequate returns.

 11. Excesses correct. When investor psychology is extremely rosy and markets are
 "priced for perfection" - based on an assumption that things will always be good -
 the scene is set for capital destruction. It may happen because investors' assumptions
 turn out to be too optimistic, because negative events occur, or simply because too-
 high prices collapse of their own weight.

 12. Investment survival has to be achieved in the short run, not on average over the
 long run. That's why we must never forget the six-foot-tall man who drowned
 crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average. Investors have to make it
 through the low points. Because ensuring the ability to do so under adverse

 circumstances is incompatible with maximizing returns in the good times,
 investors must choose between the two.

 Most of these twelve lessons can be reduced to just one: be alert to what's going on
 around you with regard to the supply/demand balance for investable funds and the
 eagerness to spend them. We know what it feels like when there's too little capital
 around and great hesitance to part with it (like now). Worthwhile investments can go
 begging, and business can slow throughout the economy. It's called a credit crunch. But
 the opposite deserves to receive no less attention. There's no official term for it, so "too
 much money chasing too few ideas" may have to do. Regardless of what it's called, an
 oversupply of capital and the accompanying dearth of prudence such as we saw in
 the last few years - with their pernicious effects - can be dangerous for your
 investing health and must be recognized and dealt with.

 All of the rules enumerated above can be depended on to take effect . . . eventually. But
 rarely do they operate on schedule. That's why, as markets go further to excess, more
 and more people join in bullish behavior at worse and worse moments. Remember,
 though, as Larry Summers put it, "in economics things happen slower than you expected
 they would, but when they finally do, they happen faster than you imagined they could."

 These are the themes behind the current crisis. Master them and you'll have a better
 chance of side-stepping the next one.