Memo: Now What?.

My memos mostly try to explain what's been going on in the financial arena and how
 things got that way. With three published this past summer plus December's review of
 the lessons of 2007, I've done a lot of that. Hopefully they were helpful. Given what I
 consider to be the importance of the current situation, I have decided to venture beyond
 the familiar ground and into an area where I'm on shakier footing: the future. Before
 doing so, however, I can't resist the temptation to recap how we got here.

 Boom
 U

 There's a process through which bullish excesses set the stage for bearish
 corrections. It's known as "boom/bust," a label that succinctly describes the last
 few years and, I think, the next few.

 In 2001-02, heavy borrowing to overbuild optical fiber capacity led the
 telecommunications industry to the brink of financial collapse. This came to a head
 around the time that scandals were unearthed at Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia, Tyco
 and Global Crossing. This combination of events - set against the backdrop of a
 sluggish economy and some very negative geo-political events - led to a widespread
 crisis of confidence regarding corporate financial statements, corporate
 managements and corporate debt. The environment was quite bleak.

 The Fed took interest rates as low as 1% to offset the negative effects of these events
 and others. Because of this - and with U.S. equities having fallen for three
 consecutive years for the first time since the Great Depression - many investors
 concluded that their return aspirations couldn't be met in traditional investments.
 Pressure for higher returns had the effect of increasing the acceptance of alternative
 investments, hedge funds, emerging market securities, leverage and financial
 innovation . . . in the process, suppressing customary risk aversion.

 Leverage and risk taking became the dominant features of the financial
 landscape, facilitated by a "global wall of liquidity." The low promised return on
 most investments, the pressure for more and the availability of low-cost capital all
 combined to make leveraged structures the flavor of the day.

 Importantly, much of the growth in leverage took place free of regulatory oversight.
 In the past, the creation of debt was limited by margin requirements, Fed regulations,
 bank capital requirements and bankers' prudence. But under the new order, an

 explosion of non-bank lending rendered the traditional restraints impotent, with
 unregulated hedge funds and derivative traders doing what financial institutions
 wouldn't or couldn't. And when traditional providers of capital did participate,
 competition to lend caused them to join in the trend to "covenant-lite," "PIK/toggle"
 and other loosey-goosey structures.

 Financial innovation enjoyed enormous popularity. The application of leverage,
 securitization and tranching permitted debt backed by assets such as mortgages
 to be created and sold around the world. This process, it was said, enabled just the
 right level of risk and return to be delivered to each investor.

 Financial sector participants and observers concluded that the world had been made a
 less risky place by disintermediation (in which banks sold off loans rather than hold
 them), adroit central bank management and developments that made debt more
 borrower-friendly. In many cases, this sense of reduced risk encouraged individuals
 to assume correspondingly more risk.

 Because the structured products were so new, sophisticated and opaque, high ratings
 would be needed if they were to gain acceptance. Wall Street's persuasiveness,
 combined with the rating agencies' susceptibility, caused the needed ratings to be
 assigned. Thus the final element was in place for the financial innovations to gain
 widespread popularity.

 Among the innovations, collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, deserve particular
 mention. CDO originators would issue tranches of debt with varying levels of
 priority regarding the cash flows from debt portfolios assembled with the proceeds.
 In many cases, the portfolios consisted heavily of residential mortgage-backed
 securities, each comprised of large numbers of mortgages, often subprime. I find it
 inconceivable that buyers of CDO debt really understood the riskiness of the tranched
 debt of leveraged pools of tranched mortgage securities underlaid by thousands of
 anonymous loans. But solid ratings made the debt highly salable.

 With vast sums available for high-fee investment products, managers' incentives
 favored the rapid amassing and deploying of large pools of capital. The usual
 effect of such a process is to drive up asset prices, drive down prospective returns and
 narrow investors' margin of safety. It was no different this time.

 Due to widespread prosperity, large amounts of capital flowing into the mortgage
 market, and the flowering of the American dream of home ownership (and of wealth
 therefrom), rapid home price appreciation became a prominent feature of this
 period. Price gains further inflamed the people's hopes, and behavior regarding
 residential real estate grew increasingly speculative.

 Thanks to the combination of the wealth effect from home appreciation, the ability to
 borrow liberally against increased home equity, and strong competition among
 financial institutions to provide credit, consumer spending grew faster than

 consumer incomes, propelling the economy ahead but rendering households
 increasingly leveraged.

 As this process moved onward, it depended on a continued supply of the underlying
 ingredients: confidence, liquidity, leverage, risk tolerance and acceptance of
 untested structures. The resulting "virtuous circle" was described in glowing terms
 just as its perpetuation was growing increasingly unlikely.

 Bust

 It took five years or so for the bullish background described above to be established in
 full. As usual, far less time was required for the excesses to be exposed and the process
 of their unwinding to begin. The air always goes out of the balloon a lot faster than it
 went in.

 Regular readers know that if there's one thing I believe in, perhaps more strongly
 than anything else, it's the fact that cycles will prevail and excesses will correct. For
 the bullish phase described above to hold sway, the environment had to be
 characterized by greed, optimism, exuberance, confidence, credulity, daring, risk
 tolerance and aggressiveness. But these traits will not govern a market forever.
 Eventually they will give way to fear, pessimism, prudence, uncertainty, skepticism,
 caution, risk aversion and reticence. A lot of this has happened.

 Busts are the product of booms, and I'm convinced it's usually more correct to
 attribute a bust to the excesses of the preceding boom than to the specific event that
 sets off the correction. But most of the time there is a spark that starts the swing from
 bullish to bearish. This time it came in the world of subprime mortgages.

 Subprime mortgages (as if there's a person alive who doesn't know) are loans made to
 people whose credit scores fall below the "prime" standards that government-sponsored
 agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac require of the loans they buy. In the last few
 years, as part of the rosy process described above, subprime mortgages were issued in
 rapidly increasing numbers. They were often placed by independent mortgage
 originators paid for volume rather than credit quality; through salesmanship that caused
 excessive amounts to be borrowed; for the purchase of highly appreciated homes; with
 temporarily low "teaser" interest rates; in structures that reduced or delayed principal
 repayment; and without requiring borrowers to document the incomes they claimed. Of
 course, with the clarity that comes with hindsight, everyone now sees that these
 elements constituted breeding grounds for trouble.

 Anyway, here's how things went:

 In late 2006 and early 2007, defaults among subprime mortgages began to rise.
 But as is usually the case with the first crack in the financial dam, this attracted little
 attention and was generally described as an "isolated development."

 By July 2007, however, the defaults became serious and could no longer be ignored.
 This precipitated wholesale downgradings of CDO debt securities.

 The defaults and downgrades led to price declines. This caused leveraged
 investment entities that held CDO debt to receive margin calls and capital
 withdrawals. When they went to the market to sell the debt to raise cash, they found
 either that it couldn't be sold or that the bids were way below fair value. When some
 investors announced significant losses, the mark-to-model approach often used for
 pricing was questioned and then rejected in favor of market prices.

 In times of crisis, you sell what you can sell, not what you want to sell. Many of the
 entities that held CDO debt also held leveraged loans (the new term for bank loans,
 since most banks no longer hold on to loans for long). Thus, when they couldn't get
 fair prices for CDO debt, they sold leveraged loans, putting their prices under
 pressure as well. And when the creation of new Collateralized Loan Obligations
 slowed to a trickle, the decline in demand from CLOs removed an important prop
 from loan prices.

 Some leveraged entities that couldn't sell enough CDO debt (or other holdings) at fair
 prices suspended withdrawals. In extreme cases, they melted down and investors lost
 everything. In sum, entities that had borrowed short to invest in longer-term,
 potentially illiquid assets fell victim to their funding mismatch. The
 precariousness of this position is easy to overlook when all is going well, asset prices
 are firm and capital is freely available. But it regularly leads to ruin when financial
 crises take hold.

 With these developments, psychology turned from positive to negative overnight.
 Lenders became more nervous, requiring repayments, raising lending standards and
 refusing to roll over maturing loans. In particular, there was a dramatic contraction in
 the market for commercial paper backed by assets (rather than by promises from
 creditworthy firms).

 Among other things, the investment banks found their balance sheets clogged
 with debt for buyouts that they had promised to place ("bridge loans") before the
 music stopped, and the debt became unsalable on the agreed terms. This cut into their
 ability to make new loans. Discount sales were talked of, and funds were formed to
 buy up the loans.

 Central banks stepped in to calm the waters. The European bank injected
 significant capital. The Fed cut short-term rates. The Bank of England guaranteed
 deposits at Northern Rock, a building society (S&L), and extended emergency loans.
 And so the panic eased. The reaction seemed to be "boy, I'm glad that's over." But
 the calm lasted only from early September to mid-October.

 CDO downgrades continued, price declines deepened, and financial institutions
 began to report third-quarter losses on mortgage-related holdings. These
 occurred around the world, but they were concentrated in U.S. commercial and
 investment banks. There was some surprise when it turned out that, despite
 disintermediation, banks still had ended up holding the bag. Also surprising was the
 fact that new and unheard-of types of (usually bank-controlled) off-balance-sheet
 entities - structured investment vehicles ("SIVs") and conduits - were among the big
 losers. Because some couldn't renew their asset-backed financing, their debts had to
 be taken onto the banks' balance sheets (to avoid holding fire sales in order to repay
 lenders), bringing the supposedly alchemical process of disintermediation full circle.

 Banks warned of fourth-quarter losses, people wondered whether the warnings
 were sufficient, executives lost jobs, and suppliers of credit became even more
 restrictive. Due to the combined effect of losing equity to writedowns and having to
 take SIV debt onto balance sheets, there was talk of bank equity capital becoming
 inadequate. Citigroup found it appropriate to sell convertible equity to Abu Dhabi
 with an 11% starting dividend, and others like UBS and Merrill Lynch followed suit.

 Mortgage lending ground to a near halt, even for "prime" borrowers. Homebuilders
 and housing-related retailers issued profit warnings. Inventories of unsold homes
 swelled. A few money market funds threatened to "break the buck" and had to be
 rescued. Towns in Norway that had bought CDO debt neared insolvency. Florida's
 pooled fund for localities had to suspend withdrawals. Mono-line insurers that had
 guaranteed mortgage-related securities came under pressure, casting doubt on the
 safety of municipal bonds they had insured. The "isolated development" had
 sprouted surprising and widespread repercussions.

 In just four months - from mid-July to mid-November - we saw the development of a
 full-fledged credit crunch, with that term regularly appearing in the headlines. Whereas
 anyone could get money for any purpose a year earlier, now deserving borrowers had a
 tough time securing funds.

 And there you have it: five pages devoted to the past in a memo about the future.

 Clouds on the Horizon
 U U

 The Fed and other central banks have taken strong action to lower the cost of credit and
 inject reserves into the system. And in the last month or so, things went quiet. But with
 everyone back from the holidays, events are likely to heat up again.

 Clearly things have just begun to be sorted out in the financial sector. Year-end pricing
 of mortgage-related securities may bring further writedowns. Auditors may view low
 prices as more defensible than high ones, and avoiding legal risk can influence their
 decisions. Conservative auditors will do battle with bank managements desirous of
 maintaining equity reserves and financial flexibility. On the other hand, there may be a

 wish on the part of managements - especially new ones - to clear the decks by marking
 down or selling off problem assets. All of this may result in bigger losses in the short
 run.

 There's still some mystery about whether mortgage losses will pop up in new places. For
 example, relatively little has been reported by insurance companies and pension funds.
 We also thought Asian institutions were big buyers of CDO paper over the past year or
 two, yet nothing's been heard from them to date.

 Fundamentals are really bad in the housing sector: Record home price declines. High
 levels of foreclosure, and neighborhoods where for-sale signs are everywhere. Swollen
 inventories of unsold homes. Mortgage interest rate resets that are likely to add further to
 the above. Very low sale volumes (meaning sellers haven't adjusted to reality in terms of
 the prices it'll take to tempt buyers). Financing and refinancing difficult to obtain.
 People unable to buy homes because they can't sell the ones they own.

 What will happen to mortgage defaults? It's hard to say how bad it'll get. Anyone who
 bought a home in 2005-07 and borrowed a high percentage of the cost is likely to be
 "upside-down" - that is, to owe more on the mortgage than the house is worth. Will
 these people keep on making mortgage payments? And what will happen as interest rates
 reset from teaser to market? Will borrowers be able to afford the increased payments?
 Will they stop paying on car loans and credit cards to make the mortgage payment? Or
 are the former more essential for survival in the short run?

 Implications for the Broader Economy
 U

 Everyone wants to know whether there's a recession ahead. They're even asking me
 . . . someone who certainly doesn't know.

 I don't think about it much. First of all, thinking isn't going to produce a useful answer.
 People have opinions, and while they may be considered opinions, I wouldn't bet on
 whether they'll be right. Most people say the probability is about 40-50%, which I think
 is their way of saying they don't know but they feel it's not unlikely.

 A recession is a technical matter: two consecutive quarters of negative real growth. Sure,
 recessions are bad, but if there isn't a recession, that doesn't mean everything's okay.
 What matters to us is whether the economy will or won't be sluggish. It is generally
 believed that highly leveraged companies run into trouble and defaults rise
 significantly when economic growth falls below 2% per annum.

 Several things suggest that in the months and perhaps a year or two ahead, economic
 growth will be less than vibrant. Many are related to the consumer. The housing
 situation described above particularly bodes ill.

 Rising mortgage payments are likely to hinder consumer spending.
 It's hard to believe consumer psychology will be positive. With home prices well
 below the levels of a year or two ago, the "wealth effect" will be negative. Feeling
 poorer is likely to discourage consumer spending. So is negative news about the
 economy, and the receipt of much larger bills for gasoline and heating.
 The combination of rising home prices and generous capital markets in the past
 permitted home equity to be withdrawn and spent. Neither of those is likely to be a
 positive in the near future.

 Consumer spending is the engine of the U.S. economy's growth. I just don't see it
 staying strong. I heard the other day that we should applaud consumers' "resilience":
 their willingness to spend even when incomes and news are negative. Personally, I find it
 frightening. Eventually there'll be a day of reckoning for spending growth which isn't
 supported by income growth - that is, for dissaving.

 The second element with a negative prognosis is capital availability. Banks' losses on
 mortgage-related securities have eaten into both (a) the capital they need to support their
 lending and (b) their appetite for risk. Less credit is available to hedge funds and private
 equity funds. Fewer CDOs and CLOs will be formed in the near future, so they won't be
 able to provide debt capital as aggressively as they did in the past. Just as leverage and
 willingness to bear risk were the twin engines of the recent boom, so their reduction
 is likely to cause things to slow.

 Third, business expansion is unlikely to contribute to growth. Already-slow holiday
 spending, employment growth and orders for durables are unlikely to encourage
 businesses to expand production, build inventories or create jobs. The announcement of
 corporations' fourth quarter results in a month or so will give us a hint regarding
 direction.

 The main offset to concern about a slowdown comes from overseas. In the past, a
 recession in the U.S. was sure to have effects worldwide. Now, it seems possible that
 developing economies such as those of China and India will see enough demand from
 elsewhere - including domestic demand - to avoid importing our slowdown. The most
 optimistic case holds that foreign demand might avert a recession in the U.S. Such
 demand could be buttressed by the softness of the dollar, which makes our goods very
 attractive to buyers spending foreign currencies. We'll see.

 As usual, there are optimists and pessimists. The optimists see enough strength to offset
 the effect of the mortgage losses. The pessimists think a massive contraction in the prices
 of assets - mostly homes - implies a calamitous contraction that can only be averted
 through massive government action (if at all). We won't bet on which is right, but we
 believe the economy - and thus business - will be less vibrant in the period ahead than it
 has been.

 The Fed's Dilemma
 U

 Investors are hoping the Fed will ride to the rescue with rate cuts and capital injections
 that bolster the economy. It did so in September, allowing sentiment to improve and debt
 prices to recover for a while, and again in December.

 The markets rejoice when the Fed cuts rates (all but the bond market, which worries that
 rekindled inflation will push up interest rates, which will push down bond prices).
 Personally, I think a rate cut sends a mixed message. It implies help is on the way, but it
 makes me wonder about the peril that made the Fed take the step. It's like the guy who
 goes to the doctor and sees him pull out a gigantic hypodermic. Nice to know he's
 getting treatment, but isn't the condition worrisome? Along those lines, the Fed's 50
 basis point cut on September 14, which exceeded most expectations, caused
 breakingviews.com to run the headline "Does Ben [Bernanke] know something we
 don't?"

 Around November 27, investors concluded they could count on a significant rate cut,
 causing the Dow to move up 546 points in just the next two days. Surely they think
 lower rates will stimulate the economy and help offset the credit crunch. But here are the
 counters:

 Will making money cheaper cause financial institutions to borrow and lend, or
 people to borrow and spend? Can a rate cut offset the frightening aspects of
 declining creditworthiness? Low interest costs provide scant compensation when
 loans go unpaid. Thus the Fed can offer cheap money, but it can't make people
 borrow it, spend it or risk it. The phrase for that problem is "pushing on a string."
 It's a big part of the reason why Japanese economic growth has never been
 successfully restarted. For this reason, some observers are suggesting that
 Washington add fiscal stimulus (tax cuts and spending increases) to the Fed's
 monetary policy. In this way, consumers' reticence can be offset by direct
 government spending.

 Will fear of rising inflation deter the Fed from stimulative action? In general,
 central bankers view their primary job as keeping inflation from accelerating as the
 economy grows. Avoiding slowdowns is usually secondary. Prices are moving up
 sharply in food and fuel, and the overall rate of inflation has broken out from the low
 levels of the past decade. This may limit the Fed's freedom to stimulate the economy
 and risk a reheating. And I hear some worry about a return to the "stagflation" of the
 1970s, in which inflation roared ahead but economic growth couldn't gain traction.

 What will lower rates do to the willingness of foreigners to hold dollar reserves?
 We need foreigners to hold dollar-denominated securities. They're the swing buyers
 of billions of dollars of Treasury securities each year. If they won't do so, who'll
 finance our fiscal and trade deficits? If investing at U.S. interest rates is seen as
 implying too great an opportunity cost, a spreading conclusion that dollar holdings
 are unattractive will put us in quite a financing pickle. Of course, this worry will be

 ameliorated if there's widespread rate cutting among the central banks of the
 developed world.

 Finally, the Fed has to think about moral hazard. Yes, the Fed wants to prevent
 financial catastrophes and widespread resulting pain. But at the same time, it doesn't
 want to give risk takers the impression that they can count on the central bank to
 make them whole, and thus encourage greater adventurousness in the future. The Fed
 will have to balance its reluctance to rescue sophisticated speculators against its
 desire to protect "innocent bystanders."

 I'm sure the Fed will take strong steps to keep the credit crunch from becoming as bad as
 it otherwise might. But there are limits on its freedom to take action and its ability to
 save the day.

 Averting Fire Sales

 Many of the full-blown crises I've seen have been caused (or exacerbated) by the
 following process, which eventually ends in something commonly called a fire sale:

 take on short-term capital,
 invest it in longer-term or illiquid assets,
 experience price declines and writedowns that eliminate your resolve to hold, unsettle
 your suppliers of capital and/or jeopardize your capital adequacy,
 receive a margin call or capital withdrawal notice,
 need to raise cash on a day of market chaos, and
 be forced to sell into an inhospitable market regardless of price.

 In the distressed debt funds that we organized in 1990 and 2002, both times of chaos in
 financial markets, we earned net IRRs in the 30s and 40s. If you think about it, those
 IRRs have to be described as aberrant. No one should be able to earn returns like those
 without significant leverage. And yet we did. Like all active investors, we try to buy
 things for less than they're worth. The above results suggest we were aided in those
 funds by people who were willing to sell things far below their worth. Why would
 they do so? Often because of the fire sale process described above.

 Not surprisingly, our financial leaders are attempting to short-circuit this process.
 Mortgage defaults are real and widespread and will produce losses for holders of related
 securities. Eventually those losses will have to be recognized and dealt with. But I think
 several of the actions we're seeing are aimed at avoiding exaggerated, panicked fire sales:

 injections of liquidity,
 mortgage reset holiday,
 taking SIVs (and their debt) onto balance sheets, and
 proposing a Super-SIV (which now seems to be history).

 But we need to recognize that in addition to potentially enriching buyers of distressed
 assets, fire sales clear problems from balance sheets and speed solutions. They bring pain
 and chaos, but they also move things ahead. One of the reasons for Japan's lingering
 malaise may be that it denied its bad-debt problems for too long, allowing sluggishness to
 dominate the economy. The questions in the U.S. and Europe will be what's being done
 and whether it will work.

 I looked at the Super-SIV particularly quizzically. Its avowed purpose was to prevent
 fire sales on the part of SIVs that had financed debt purchases with asset-backed
 commercial paper that couldn't be rolled over. So financial institutions would fund an
 entity that would buy assets rather than require their sale in the open market, where they
 would bring lower prices. But that's perverting economics! Let's see: "We'll buy
 something for 90 rather than see it come to a frozen market where it might bring 70. Yes,
 we'll buy it now even though we might have gotten a chance later to buy it for less."
 That just shouldn't happen, and now it appears it won't, as the Super-SIV mission has
 been scrubbed.

 A Word on the Monoline Insurers
 U

 I usually emphasize discussion of macro developments, but at this time there's a micro
 story that very much deserves telling. Over the last two decades, a few companies
 developed the business of insuring municipal bonds. Since this was their only business,
 they're called monoline insurers. Because of the extremely low historic frequency of
 defaults on munis, a relatively small amount of capital was enough to allow MBIA,
 Ambac and a handful of smaller companies to guarantee the payments on $2 trillion of
 municipal bonds.

 In the last few years, rather than be left behind as old fogeys, these companies "got
 modern" like almost everyone else: in addition to munis, they began to insure leveraged
 entities such as CDOs. And like everyone else, the actuarial calculations they used to
 determine how much debt they could afford to insure and the premiums they should
 charge were based on default experience from a brief period that shouldn't have been
 extrapolated. Thus, like so many others, they took on propositions that have trashed their
 balance sheets, with grave implications for their basic business.

 Here's where it gets interesting. Many muni buyers either want or are required to hold
 only AAA-rated bonds. And many munis gained their AAA ratings not because the
 issuers were eminently creditworthy, but because they were insured by companies with
 AAA ratings. But several of the insurers have landed on the credit rating agencies'
 watchlists for downgrades, given the possibly unknowable risks they assumed. If they
 lose their AAA ratings - and thus the bonds they insured do so as well - will there
 be a rush of muni holders to the exit? A fire sale at which buyers are scarce?

 One or more of the insurers may need injections of equity capital to bolster their reserves.
 But what price will investors pay for their stock? (Warburg Pincus committed to invest

 in MBIA about a month ago, when the stock was at $31, and today it's less than half
 that). And if the potential CDO losses are so great that a monoline insurer's net worth
 may be negative on an expected value basis, would anyone put in equity capital when the
 first of it basically will go to cover creditors? Certainly the monolines' future has been
 complicated by Warren Buffett's decision to compete by forming a new company that's
 not burdened by a CDO legacy.

 A relatively minor sideshow, but one very much worth watching. And one which
 illustrates the potential of "isolated developments" to have surprisingly widespread
 ramifications.

 The Shoe That Hasn't Dropped
 U

 Amid all the chaos, one area has been unaffected thus far: corporate credit-
 worthiness. Defaults on high yield bonds and non-investment-grade loans are usually
 the site of most of the pain in this area, and to date there have been almost none.

 Defaults among high yield bonds have averaged 4.2% over the last 20+ years and reached
 double digits in 1990-91 and 2001-02, giving us huge opportunities to buy depressed
 assets. In contrast, over the last year or two defaults have been near 25-year lows . . . and
 practically zero. Oaktree's high yield bond portfolios are in their 47th month without a
 default. Will default rates on high yield bonds reach or exceed the historic average? And
 how will the new asset class of leveraged loans weather its first test?

 First, with a slower economy, there's every reason to believe creditworthiness will
 decline and defaults will rise. It's just hard to believe that the incidence of default will be
 unaffected if the economic environment turns less salutary.

 Second, over the last few years we've seen a highly elevated level of buyout activity,
 with deals priced at increasing multiples of cash flow and financed with rising
 proportions of debt. Better companies can support higher debt levels, and some of the
 buyouts have been of top companies. But we feel that prices and leverage ratios have
 been high in the absolute, and that competition to buy companies in a heated environment
 made buyout funds stretch on purchase price. Some of the assumptions underlying
 these deals undoubtedly will prove to have been overly optimistic, and eventually
 we'll have the opportunity to buy debt in those deals at discounts.

 Non-performing debt related to leveraged buyouts gave us great buying opportunities
 when the LBOs of the 1980s cratered in 1990. Chastened providers of capital cut back
 their lending in the 1990s, and thus buyouts didn't contribute to the 2002 debt crisis. But
 we expect unsuccessful buyouts to be a primary source of distressed opportunities in the
 next go-round. Given the high volume of non-investment-grade debt issuance recently,
 even a moderate rate of default implies a heavy supply of distressed debt, contributing to
 the perception of a credit meltdown.

 Third, lots of potential defaults will be delayed or prevented because recent issuance has
 emphasized issuer-friendly debt. Default occurs when an interest payment isn't made or
 a debt covenant (non-cash financial requirement) is breached. But in some recent issues,
 the borrowers obtained the right to pay interest for a while in the form of additional debt
 ("toggle" bonds, because the borrower can throw the switch), and in some there were few
 if any maintenance covenants ("covenant-lite" debt). Some borrowers also arranged for
 standby credit facilities, giving them further financial flexibility in tough times. Fewer
 tripwires - fewer defaults. These features will delay defaults but won't necessarily
 preclude them. It all depends on what happens in the period between the day the default
 otherwise would have occurred and the day the music has to be faced. Maybe there'll be
 fewer defaults. Maybe bigger ones. And anyway, there's lots of "normal" (non-issuer-
 friendly) debt outstanding, especially in connection with small- and mid-size buyouts.

 In addition, it's not as if debt became more borrower-friendly without there being a
 response. Financial engineers, who decide what risks can be taken on the basis of
 what's likely, don't see risk decline and leave it at that. They tend to build back the
 risk so as to fully utilize their "risk budget." So I imagine people said, "Debt has
 become easier to bear; let's take on more of it." Which is safer: a company with a
 moderate amount of demanding debt, or one which has been highly levered with debt
 that's less burdensome? The answer is that you can't tell without knowing how things
 will unfold. You certainly can't say the latter company is less risky than the former.

 Buyouts in Europe have been at least as aggressive as in the U.S. and on average have
 been associated with less solid companies. In addition, Europe has never seen a full-
 fledged debt crisis, and the first one could be traumatic. Thus we expect numerous
 defaults and lots of discounted debt there. On the other hand, Asia hasn't yet been the
 site of many highly leveraged buyouts, so high levels of defaults and distress don't figure
 into our expectations for Asia. Maybe next cycle, after some aggressive buyouts have
 taken place there.

 Looking ahead, private equity will be subject to crosscurrents. The less
 accommodating capital markets will have a number of effects:

 Buyout funds will find it harder to finance acquisitions, especially large ones.
 Similarly, a lot of existing buyout debt won't be refinanceable on the same terms in
 the new environment.
 The speed and ease of recaps will be reduced, rendering quick withdrawals of equity
 capital at ultra-high IRRs much less likely.
 It will be harder for funds to achieve profitable exits, as would-be buyers from private
 equity funds won't find it as easy to finance purchases or pay high prices, and IPOs
 will be an uncertain route to realizations.
 But these same factors will also affect the competition to invest, meaning private
 equity funds' purchase prices in the future will likely be lower than they otherwise
 would have been.

 Finally, underperforming companies will crop up in private equity portfolios, and the
 need for turnarounds and restructurings will take up time and pull down returns.

 In many ways, the private equity industry may have to operate as it did in an earlier
 era, when funds were smaller, the volume of transactions was more moderate, both
 purchase and sale prices were lower, holding periods were longer, and IRRs were
 lower (but perhaps more meaningful in terms of times-capital-returned). Funds will
 have to make money the way they used to, with more emphasis on buying cheap and
 adding value and less on financial engineering and quick flips. Large funds formed
 within the last 12-18 months may find themselves uninvested for a while, and thus in
 high-fee limbo.

 * * *

 It's worth remembering that the boom of the last few years arose in the financial
 sector, not the "real world." Economies grew around the world - as did corporate
 profits - but there was no economic boom other than in developing nations. It was
 optimism, risk tolerance, innovation, liquidity, leverage, credulity and the race to
 compete that reached multi-generational highs. Thus the ramifications will be
 (actually, have been) felt first and most strongly in the financial sector. The
 question is how far they'll spread from there.

 Undoubtedly, credit will be harder to obtain. Economic growth will slow: the
 question is whether it will remain slightly positive or go negative, satisfying the
 requirement for the label "recession." Regardless, positive thinking and thus risk
 taking are likely to be diminished. All I can say for sure is that the world will be less
 rosy in financial terms, and results are likely to be less positive than they otherwise
 would have been. That can be enough to make highly leveraged transactions falter.

 I've said many times that for each period there's a mistake waiting to be made.
 Sometimes it's buying too much, and sometimes it's buying too little. Sometimes it's
 being too aggressive, and sometimes it's not being aggressive enough. Which it is
 depends on the combination of the going-in opportunities and the environment that
 unfolds.

 What mistake is on offer today? How aggressive should one be? Although the extent of
 the coming softness has yet to be fully defined, I feel we're in the second or third
 inning. (For readers who aren't followers of baseball, that means the standard nine-
 inning game has barely begun.) I recently read a piece asserting that we're still singing
 the national anthem before the start of a game destined to go beyond nine innings, but I
 find it hard to engage in such extreme thinking. The damage has begun to be felt and the
 correction has begun to take place.

 Nevertheless, I do think we're in the early going: the pain of price declines hasn't been
 felt in full (other than perhaps in the mortgage sector), and it's too soon to be aggressive.
 Things are somewhat cheaper (e.g., yield spreads on high yield bonds went from all-time
 lows in June to "normal" in November) but not yet on the bargain counter. Thus, I'd
 recommend that clients begin to explore possible areas for investment, identify
 competent managers and take modest action. But still cautiously, and committing a
 fraction of their reserves.

 "Don't try to catch a falling knife." That bit of purported wisdom is being heard a
 lot nowadays. Like other adages, it can be entirely appropriate in some instances,
 while in others it's nothing but an excuse for failing to think independently. Yes, it
 can be dangerous to jump in after the first price decline. But it's unprofessional to hang
 back and refuse to buy when asset prices have fallen greatly, just because it's less scary
 to "wait for the dust to settle." It's not easy to tell the difference, but that's our job.
 We've made a lot of money catching falling knives in the last two decades. Certainly
 we'll never let that old saw deter us from taking action when our analysis tells us
 there are bargains to be had.

 In the period leading up to the current crisis, investors acted like they were loaded down
 with too much cash and desperate to put it to work. To do so, they ventured into
 uncharted waters and unknowingly accepted high risks in investments providing less-
 than-commensurate compensation. With too much money chasing too few deals, the
 bargaining power was in the hands of the takers of capital. They used it to their
 advantage, making deals that were good for them but bad for the suppliers of capital. In
 the period ahead, cash will be king, and those able and willing to provide it will be
 holding the cards. This is yet another of the standard cyclical reversals, and it will afford
 bargain hunters a much better time than they had in 2003-07.

 Some of those who came to the rescue of troubled financial firms in 2007 may have
 jumped in too soon. There's a fair chance they didn't allow maximum pain to be felt
 before acting, (although the prices they paid eventually may turn out to have been
 attractive). I'd mostly let things drop in the period just ahead. My view of cycles
 tells me the correction of past excesses will give us great opportunities to invest over
 the next year or two.


Memo: Whodunit.

who·dun·it - (hōō dun it) n. a narrative dealing with a
 murder or a series of murders and the detection of the
 criminal (The Random House Dictionary of the English
 Language)

 The subprime crisis, credit crunch and possible recession are subjects of daily
 conversation. In addition to wanting to talk about how things got this way and what's
 going to happen in the future, a lot of people are eager to discuss who's to blame. It's the
 purpose of this memo to say where I think responsibility lies.

 The Subprime Factory
 U

 I've heard it said about laws that, "like sausages, you don't want to see how they're
 made." I'd like to suggest something else where the manufacturing process was
 particularly distasteful: subprime mortgages.

 This decade's vast expansion of the subprime factory originated in the ability of Wall
 Street to sell a lot of mortgage-related Collateralized Debt Obligations, or CDOs. The
 high interest rates on subprime mortgages enabled the Street to promise a lot of return on
 the lower CDO tranches and a lot of safety on the upper ones. With high-enough ratings,
 the debt looked very attractive to potential buyers. Thus, there was a use for large
 amounts of the underlying raw material: subprime mortgages. It happened, however, that
 Wall Street could sell more bologna sandwiches than there was bologna. That is, there
 was more appetite for securities built from high yielding mortgages than there were
 qualified borrowers. No problem: just provide incentives to increase production and turn
 a blind eye to creditworthiness.

 Mortgage brokers played an essential and often ugly part in this process. They were
 tasked with creating mortgages in quantity, and that's where their incentives lay. Since
 neither they nor the Wall Street firms would hold the mortgages for long, the
 emphasis was on volume rather than creditworthiness. Making loans was good;
 rejections were bad. The website of broker Kevin Schmidt's firm in Louisiana said it
 best, "We don't get paid unless we say YES." (The Wall Street Journal, January 17) The
 Journal went on to point out that, "Key players often get a cut from what a transaction is
 supposed to be worth when first structured, not what it actually delivers in the long term."

 Thus I believe mortgage brokers committed many sins. They offered more debt than
 many subprime borrowers could carry. They assured borrowers that they'd always be
 able to refinance into new loans at teaser rates, so they needn't worry about a reset to
 market rates. They probably weren't clear on all the terms and practiced the old bait-and-
 switch. They hid from first-mortgage lenders the fact that borrowers were borrowing
 their equity too. And I'm sure some encouraged borrowers to lie about their incomes,
 invoking "Everyone does it," "Why should Joe and Sue have a nicer house than you?"
 and "Nobody gets hurt."

 Appraisers made a similarly negative contribution to the process. In the days when
 home prices were stable, appraisals were based on established parameters like price per
 square foot. But with prices rising rapidly, they could only reference "comps" to other
 highly appreciated homes. Like the credit rating agencies, appraisers lent a veneer of
 respectability to a faulty process. And like rating agencies, the job probably went to
 the appraiser willing to assign the highest value. I've read about appraisers being black-
 listed because they were too conservative, restraining loan volume. According to the L.A.
 Times of January 27, a Wharton professor, Susan Wachter, has estimated that "appraisers
 helped inflate mortgage values by $135 billion during 2006 alone." Borrowers, home
 sellers, mortgage brokers and Wall Street all had a vested interest in seeing high values
 assigned. There's something fundamentally wrong when there's no party to a
 transaction who wants the appraisal to be conservative. But that became the case
 when far-away, ratings-assured buyers of sliced-and-diced mortgage securities took the
 place of lenders risking their own money and expecting to hold to maturity.

 Mortgage insurers played a similar role by lending their imprimatur and thus implying
 instruments were safe. Everyone thinks of taking out insurance as a cautious thing to do.
 When risks are insured, the people exposed to them believe they're safe to behave
 differently than they otherwise would. But what happens when the insurers miscalculate
 the risks involved, and thus issue more coverage than their capital can support in tough
 times? In the extreme, losses can go unreimbursed, meaning the insureds don't really
 have the protection they think they have and their situation is riskier than they intended.
 Certainly in this cycle, insufficiently cautious insurers abetted the bearing of risks
 that have exceeded expectations.

 Let's remember that the mortgage borrowers don't deserve a free pass. It was stupidity
 or cupidity, naïveté or moral turpitude. At best they took on massive financial
 responsibilities they didn't understand, and at worst they were fraudsters. Many took out
 "no-doc loans" at interest rates above those charged on loans requiring documentation of
 income. Why? I assume they wanted to be free to lie. And many agreed to terms they
 couldn't decipher. But why worry, if the result is a great house at a low initial monthly
 payment (and maybe cash taken out in the process)? I hate to see the borrowers'
 suffering, but each one willingly participated in a deal that was too good to be true.

 Turning Mortgage Loans into CDOs
 U

 CDO investors are in the headlines for having lost $100 billion-plus (thus far) on
 subprime-related obligations. Someone sold them something that turned out to have been
 massively overpriced. Thus I have to start with the investment bankers. Again, was it
 naïveté or avarice?

 When Oaktree considers a new product, we ask a number of questions: First, will it work
 for our clients; what's the return potential; and are the risks controllable? And second,
 can we sell it; and will it be profitable for us? Which of these did Wall Street ask
 regarding subprime CDOs? The second group of questions undoubtedly, but the results
 provide no assurance regarding the first. They sold something that failed massively, and
 they've gotten off somewhat easy in terms of society's judgment. Fittingly, investment
 banks like Merrill Lynch, Citigroup and UBS ate a lot of their own cooking (and a good
 part of the losses). But that does not absolve them of responsibility, for others were hurt
 as well.

 I believe firmly in caveat emptor, but that doesn't mean there's no such thing as
 misconduct on the part of sellers. Did they perform thoughtful and balanced due
 diligence? Did they give enough thought to the buyers' downside risk? Did they suspect
 that the good deal might be illusory? Did they see the flaws in the mortgage origination
 process? When they marshaled data with which to prove to customers and rating
 agencies that CDOs were secure, did they consider the data's sparseness or limited
 relevance? Did they fail to disclose information regarding the "exceptions" in CDO
 portfolios - mortgages that didn't meet minimum lending standards - as the New York
 Attorney General is investigating (WSJ, January 31)?

 Some of the same questions can be asked about the role of CDO managers. I haven't
 been close to the process - Oaktree didn't have any involvement - but I believe managers
 met with investment bankers who offered a near-turnkey proposal: "Here's how it works.
 The documents are ready to go. We have the assets in inventory. The debt is teed up for
 issuance. Your fees will be x million per billion." Did the managers vet the process?
 Did they undertake an independent effort to gauge the risks? Or did they just sign on to
 the magical fee machine?

 Next up, in my opinion, are the credit rating agencies. In summary, everything was
 wrong with the process through which CDO debt was rated, a process fed by the
 agencies' hunger for profit. The agencies worked with CDO sponsors to design the
 products, so how could they then be objective in evaluating them? They accepted
 payment from the companies whose offerings they were rating; they all did, but that
 doesn't mean the arrangement left them objective. They competed for the business, with
 the fees going to the agency that would assign the highest rating.

 But in the end, the rating agencies' greatest failing lay in giving their blessing to
 securities whose risk they couldn't accurately assess. The eventual default rate was
 crucial and unknowable. The historic data on subprime defaults related to mortgages that

 were issued through a far different process and incentive system. But I can't imagine any
 agency saying, "The risks are unknowable; we just can't assign a rating."

 How do we know the agencies bobbled the ball? The twelve-digit losses to date give a
 pretty good indication. An article in The Wall Street Journal of January 31 gives another:

 Standard & Poor's downgraded or threatened to downgrade more than
 8,000 mortgage investments and projected a widening array of financial
 institutions would ultimately face mortgage securities losses totaling more
 than $265 billion. . .

 S&P's rating actions touched on $534 billion in mortgage-related
 investments, including 47% of the U.S. subprime mortgage bonds rated in
 2006 and the first half of 2007. . .

 S&P . . . has now placed 69% of the triple-A rated subprime bonds
 from 2006 on negative watch. (emphasis added).

 I'd call that a thorough indictment. It indicates a flawed process, not occasional error.

 The situation is remarkably similar for the monoline insurers . . . but with an added
 wrinkle. These firms carved out a good but dull and slow-growing business in insuring
 municipal bonds. Since munis default so infrequently, they needed little in the way of
 capital to cover potential losses, and they probably started to feel they were pretty good at
 gauging losses. In the 1990s, they concluded that mortgage-backed securities were no
 more risky than munis. (Not so, it turns out: MBIA recorded mortgage-related losses of
 $714 million in the fourth quarter, versus losses of $920 million on munis over its 36-
 year history, for an average of $26 million a year.) Thus the insurers applied their capital
 and acumen to insuring $125 billion of CDO debt. They acted out of the same ignorance
 as the rating agencies, but they promised to make good on any losses.

 The results are potentially disastrous. Their capital is clearly insufficient to cover their
 responsibilities. ACA Financial Guaranty Corp., for example, wrote $69 billion of credit
 protection on the basis of its $425 million of capital. And if CDO losses eat into the
 monoline insurers' capital and/or cause them to lose their triple-A ratings, it will diminish
 the reliability of their assurance with regard to $1 trillion-plus of munis they backed.
 Loss of the triple-A rating would hurt the outstanding insured munis, wreak havoc in the
 muni market generally, and make it harder for new bonds to be issued, at just the time
 that cities and states need money to cover economy- and subprime-related revenue
 declines. Also of critical importance, it will require holders of insured CDO paper to take
 additional writedowns. The monoline situation has begun to contribute to the credit
 crisis, and people are scurrying to find a solution (thus far without success).

 All the participants in the CDO creation process took part in an activity we can call
 "ratings arbitrage." If you can take a bunch of assets with low ratings and - without
 adding to the intrinsic value of the collateral in any way - turn them into securities with

 much higher average ratings, you can make a lot of money. But the ability to do so
 means there's something wrong. (In other words, if it's possible to start with 100 pounds
 of hamburger and end up selling ten pounds of dog food, 40 pounds of sirloin and 50
 pounds of filet mignon, the truth-in-labeling rules can't be working.) In the case of
 CDOs, ratings and insurance were supplied by parties who underestimated the risk,
 and the end product was sold - and bought - by people who were willing to
 participate in this purported miracle without asking the hard questions.

 The Failure of Risk Management
 U

 I've long been critical of risk management as a distinct investment discipline. Now, a
 convincing case for my view can be made on the basis of prima facie evidence: The fact
 that most financial institutions appointed risk managers after the collapse of Long-Term
 Capital Management in 1998 doesn't seem to have helped them avoid the subprime mess.

 If you trust someone to be expert enough to make an investment, then that's the
 person who can best assess its risk. If you trust someone to assemble portfolios, it's
 they who can best judge how things will behave in combination. In the isolated risk
 management function, I feel people who know less about the underlying investments
 second guess the people who know more.

 There's an ongoing dilemma, as expressed in a joke I posted on my bulletin board in
 1970, about the fact that analysts know a great deal about a few things, while portfolio
 managers know a little bit about a lot of things. In my view, however, risk managers
 know the littlest bit about the most things, so they're least suited to evaluate portfolio
 risk.

 In December's "No Different this Time," I included a discussion of the leading risk
 modeling tool, "value at risk" or VaR, which provides a "worst case" estimate of the risk
 in a portfolio. I mentioned that in the first nine years after the model was adopted, its
 predicted maximum trading loss was never exceeded. And then, in the third quarter of
 2007, it was exceeded on a quarter of the trading days. So clearly, this model proved to
 T

 be less than totally reliable. The model may be flawed, the historic data on which it was
 based may have been non-representative or insufficient, or the world may have changed.
 Regardless of the reason, VaR failed.

 When you read about Goldman Sachs's success in avoiding the CDO turmoil and getting
 net-short, (see The Wall Street Journal of December 14), you see it was done on the basis
 of the reasoned judgment of executives on its proprietary trading desk. Ironically, when
 mortgage-related security prices first began to plummet, the increase in volatility raised
 Goldman's VaR, causing the elimination of positions that eventually would have been
 highly profitable. According to the WSJ, "a client who had similar positions at the time
 . . . says he made $100 million by relieving Goldman of [a] short bet. 'It appeared to me
 that [the traders] constantly fought a VaR battle with the firm once the market started to

 break.'" But in the end, subjective judgment was permitted to override risk management
 science, with great results.

 Interestingly, many banks got into trouble because their top executives wanted to
 "be like Goldman" and demanded that more be bet for the house's account. But
 they lacked people capable of correctly making the needed judgments and relied instead
 on statistical risk managers. They've lost a lot of money, and a lot of the executives and
 the risk managers are out of a job.

 Enough with the Quants Already
 U

 Over the forty years since I attended grad school at the University of Chicago - largely
 inspired by theories originated there - there's been a pronounced rise in the participation
 of "quants" in the investment business. These are people who know a lot about statistics
 and computer modeling. They specialize in manipulating large amounts of data and
 predicting how portfolios are likely to perform under a variety of scenarios. But usually
 they don't know much about the individual securities that make up the portfolios . . . or
 feel the need to do so. In other words, you might say they know the price of
 everything and the value of nothing.

 In recent years - and in the excesses we're examining - the ranks of quants grew to
 include the risk managers discussed just above; "financial engineers" at investment banks
 who structured complex entities and simulated their future performance; analysts at
 monoline insurers who assessed the risks they were asked to insure; and people who
 managed portfolios, usually hedge funds, on the basis of mathematical algorithms.

 However, it should be noted that quants and their computer models primarily
 extrapolate the patterns that have held true in past markets. They can't predict
 changes in those patterns; they can't anticipate aberrant periods; and thus they
 generally overestimate the reliability of past norms.

 To give you a context in which to think about that, I'll again borrow some wisdom from
 my friend Ric Kayne: "99% of financial history has taken place within two standard
 deviations," he says, "but everything interesting has taken place outside of two
 standard deviations." In other words, most of the time markets follow their normal
 patterns, and when they do, assets are priced reasonably and there isn't much to do. But
 on rare occasion, the markets go off the rails, and that's when big money is made and
 lost.

 Now think about the quants. They know all about how things will work if times are
 normal, but their analysis is of no help when events occur that reside in the far-off,
 improbable tails of the probability distribution - like when it turns out that 2% isn't
 the right default rate for subprime mortgages, and the actual figure is several times that.

 One of the great investment books of the 1960s was The Money Game by the
 pseudonymous Adam Smith. Smith talked about a veteran investor, the Great Winfield,
 who knew he was falling behind the times but had the answer: "Our trouble is that we are
 too old for this market. . . . My solution to the current market: kids." In the last decade
 or two, everyone hired quantitative whiz kids, and the results were disastrous.
 Hopefully, the events of the last few years will produce a sea change, in which
 investors come to rely more on seasoned judgment and less on financial engineers.

 Greenspan and the Fed
 U

 Alan Greenspan deserves a lot of credit for presiding over one of the greatest periods of
 prosperity and market gains in our history, and for saying, presciently, ". . . history has
 not dealt kindly with the aftermath of protracted periods of low risk premiums." With
 apologies to my indirect personal connection to the ex-Fed Chairman, I must express my
 view that his stewardship wasn't perfect. (Of course, I doubt he'd say it was perfect.)

 Because he rarely used his bully pulpit to warn about excesses, advances were
 permitted to run unchecked. For example, his warning against "irrational
 exuberance" attracted a lot of attention, but I've always wondered why, if he
 considered it justified in 1996 with the Dow at 6,400, we heard nothing from him on
 the subject in 2000, when it topped out at 11,700. And mightn't he have warned in
 recent years about overheated home prices and aggressive mortgage lending tactics?

 He did little to "remove the punchbowl," or puncture bubbles. He could have pushed
 for higher margin requirements in 1998-99, or for mortgage reforms in 2004 or 2005,
 but he didn't, insisting that it's difficult to identify bubbles other than in hindsight.

 He was too much of a cheerleader, providing justification for market advances, often
 on the basis of productivity gains.

 In 2004, he urged people to take out adjustable rate mortgages rather than fixed-rate
 loans, since they always carry the lowest initial interest rate. But he overlooked the
 fact that (a) low-income borrowers might be ill-equipped to handle the risk of resets
 to higher rates, and (b) with mortgage rates at multi-generational lows, that would
 have been a great time for them to fix their interest cost. Just think where we'd be if a
 good portion of today's adjustable-rate mortgages carried fixed rates instead.

 Having cut interest rates to head off negative ramifications from the bumps in
 the road, he left them low for too long. I learned in the hyperinflationary late
 1970s and early '80s that when people feel an asset will always appreciate at an
 annual rate in excess of the cost of money, the result is speculative demand.
 That certainly was the case this decade.

 In general, it seems the Fed - including the current Bernanke regime - wants to let
 advances run and limit declines, whether in the economy or the markets. Everyone wants

 advances and no one - except bargain hunters and investors in distress - relishes
 pullbacks. But I wonder if that stance makes sense.

 How can we have gains but not losses? How can a free-market economy allocate
 capital effectively if capital creation is abetted and capital destruction is prevented?
 The fact is, excesses like we've just seen have to be corrected - painfully - and if
 they aren't, they'll just grow bigger and bigger as the cycles wear on. "Moral
 hazard" will arise, convincing people that risk takers will always be bailed out,
 something that's bound to encourage greater risk taking.

 The Fed's actions in the current situation have been dramatic:

 an unexpectedly large half-point cut in the discount rate in September,
 strong steps to inject liquidity and encourage borrowing by banks, and
 an unusual 3⁄4-point rate cut on January 21, followed by another 1⁄2 point a week later.

 In two decades as Fed Chairman, Alan Greenspan was required to deal with the emerging
 market crisis and meltdown of Long Term Capital Management in 1998; the possibility
 of a Y2K glitch; the tech stock and broader bear market in 2000-02; the ramifications of
 the 9/11 attack; and concern over the possibility of deflation. And yet he never cut
 rates by 3⁄4 point in one step or by 1-1⁄4 points in just eight days. Thus Bernanke's
 actions seem extreme. Is the Fed attempting to prevent a normal recession? Does it
 foresee an unusually serious one, perhaps driven by unprecedented weakness in home
 prices? Or is it concerned about profound financial system weakness, centered at banks
 and the monoline insurers?

 Kudos and Brickbats
 U

 I hesitate to single out an individual for criticism, especially after he's been punished
 through loss of his job, but CEO Chuck Prince of Citigroup contributed the unfortunate
 quote that just has to stand as the symbol of the last few years' excesses. In early July, he
 showed foresight by saying "when the music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will get
 complicated." Unfortunately, he added, "as long as the music is playing, you've got to
 get up and dance. We're still dancing."

 What I think Prince was saying is that even if the market's overheated, a financial
 institution has to participate or risk losing market share to those who will. But that's my
 point. Is there any business a company won't do? Is there any profit a company
 won't pursue? Might there be something worse than losing market share? What a
 wonderful thing it would have been to lose market share in the crazy period leading up to
 last summer. Doing so held the key to avoiding the CDO carnage. Short-termism is
 one of the greatest problems in U.S. business today, and it makes it tough to go left
 when all your competitors are going right. But our business leaders should dare to
 be great.

 Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis won my respect early last year when he said, "We
 are close to a time when we'll look back and say we did some stupid things . . . We need a
 little more sanity in a period in which everyone feels invincible and thinks this is different."
 He was dead right. The question is what he did about it. B of A took a $5.4 billion write-
 down in the fourth quarter and has $12 billion of CDO exposure left. Those numbers are
 about a third of Citigroup's. Is that good or bad?

 Who else saw what was coming?

 Jim Grant was very outspoken about CDO excesses in his newsletter, "Grant's
 Interest Rate Observer," and early enough for heedful investors to have done
 something about it. He was one of the first, for example, to question the fact that
 most of the collateral behind CDOs was rated below investment grade, and yet a vast
 majority of CDO debt was rated above investment grade.

 William Conway of Carlyle Group attracted a lot of attention - but perhaps not all he
 deserved - for a January 2007 memo to his Carlyle colleagues, in which he wrote:

 As you all know (I hope), the fabulous profits that we have been able to
 generate for our limited partners are not solely a function of our
 investment genius, but have resulted in large part from a great market and
 the availability of enormous amounts of cheap debt. . . . Frankly, there is
 so much liquidity in the world financial system, that lenders (even "our"
 lenders) are making very risky credit decisions. . . . I know that this
 liquidity environment cannot go on forever. . . . I know that the longer it
 lasts, the greater the pressures will be on all of us to take advantage of this
 liquidity. And I know that the longer it lasts, the worse it will be when it
 ends.

 John Paulson won well-deserved fame for generating returns up to 590% in his
 hedge funds last year. He did three things well: He recognized the excesses in the
 residential real estate arena. He figured out how to profit from their inevitable
 reversal. And he was lucky enough to get the timing right; rather than reach his
 conclusion earlier, look wrong for a long time and give up - as others did - he turned
 bearish in 2005 and was able to hold on until events began to prove him right in 2006.

 I'm glad to say our clients' sectors of the investment world - such as pension and
 endowment funds and insurance companies - generally haven't reported much
 participation in the most highly leveraged entities.

 Goldman Sachs has distinguished itself thus far by avoiding subprime and CDO
 losses, being short mortgage paper and skating through the crisis. Lehman Brothers,
 Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and JP Morgan Chase are other institutions that
 seem to have signed on for less subprime pain than their competitors.

 Finally, a statement by the Chief Executive of UBS provided another insight into the
 recent events. Early last December, he said, "the ultimate value of our subprime holdings
 . . . remains unknowable." I admire his candor, and I'm sure he's right. But the question
 I'm left with is whether it might have been possible for buyers of subprime-related paper
 to reach that realization at the time they first evaluated those assets?

 U Where Does the Buck Stop?

 In affixing ultimate responsibility for losing investments, I tend to look to the
 investors who made them. Sometimes investors are blind-sided by unforeseeable
 events, and sometimes they're preyed upon by unethical or even criminal purveyors.
 But usually the process couldn't have gone as far as it did if it wasn't for buyers who
 sought return too avidly, trusted too much, failed in some way to be alert to the
 potential for loss, and fell for something that was too good to be true.

 Everyone dreams of return without high risk. But where can it be found? Not in markets
 that are working properly - that is, markets that are efficient. Not in leverage, which
 should be expected to cut both ways, magnifying both risk as well as return. Not in doing
 what everyone else is doing, or in buying the product du jour that's being touted broadly
 and purchased unquestioningly. At best it can be found, with regard to markets that are
 less than fully efficient, in possessing - or aligning yourself with investors who possess -
 that scarce attribute: personal skill . . . superior insight . . . alpha.

 To fully understand how superior returns are achieved and why they're rare, you
 have to grasp the concept of "excess return." It's what everyone wants. It's "superior
 risk-adjusted return": the amount by which an active investor's return exceeds that which
 can be achieved through a passive portfolio of the same riskiness. For active investing
 to work and for excess return to exist, market participants - and thus, collectively,
 the market - have to be making mistakes. That's how I think of the thing called
 "market inefficiency." Thus, people who think excess return is readily available fail to
 ask a few simple questions:

 Why should a free lunch exist despite the presence of thousands of investors who're
 ready and willing to bid up the price of anything that's too cheap?
 Why is the seller of the asset willing to part with it at a price from which it'll give me
 an excessive return? Do I really know more about the asset than he does?
 If it's such a great proposition, why hasn't someone else snapped it up?
 Why is the broker offering it to me (rather than grabbing it for his prop desk)?
 And if the return appears so generous in proportion to the risk, might I be
 overlooking some hidden risk?

 How do the CDO buyers measure up in this regard? I'd guess they were told they could
 get better returns from a double-A mortgage security than a double-A corporate without
 any incremental risk (or else leveraging up wouldn't have seemed so safe). I believe they
 were told the source of this return would be the market, as opposed to great skill on the

 part of CDO managers. I imagine they relied heavily on the participation of the rating
 agencies and monoline insurers. Each of these was flawed.

 What made them believe that mortgage loans could be bought up and packaged into CDO
 securities (with multiple fees paid along the way) with the resulting return still excessive?
 Why should one legitimate double-A significantly out-yield another? Why didn't they
 ask more about the process through which this miracle was being accomplished? Why
 did they accept that narrow spreads could safely be turned into generous returns through
 leverage? Why did they trust so heavily in the simulated performance of securities for
 which the existing track record wasn't applicable? Did they look into the motivation and
 capabilities of the rating agencies and insurers on which they depended? In short, were
 they skeptical enough?

 Many CDO buyers had no independent ability to assess the risks of CDOs. But they
 bought anyway. They followed their desire for high risk-adjusted returns, took action
 based on the relationship between promised return and rating, and went astray.

 The bottom line of all of this is that one of the main functions of markets is to drive
 out excess return by bringing buyers and sellers together at prices from which the
 return will be just fair. Realizing that makes skepticism an indispensable ingredient
 in superior investing. Most investment failures are preceded by a dearth of it.

 * * *

 I often think back to an early 1990s issue of Forbes on the subject of compensation. It
 quoted an experienced corporate director as saying something like, "I've given up on
 trying to get people to do what I tell them to do. They do what I pay them to do."

 It's clear that in recent years, improper incentives caused a lot of people to do the
 wrong thing. Loan originators with nothing riding on the loans' long-term performance.
 Investment bankers who expected to package and resell loans before they went bad.
 Rating agencies and appraisers - the investor's protectors - incentivized to come in high.
 Companies that (a) were lured by potential profit into areas where there was no way to
 understand what would happen in tough times, and thus (b) accepted risks for which they
 were unprepared. Financial institutions that failed to sit out when the markets became
 overheated.

 My wife Nancy says she likes this memo more than most, because the lesson is so easy to
 understand. "People can't be counted on to do the right thing," she said, "when they
 don't have anything at risk."

 Far more participants in this process covered themselves with dishonor than with
 distinction, as attested to by the magnitude and ubiquitousness of the losses. But the

 blame for the current problems falls primarily on two groups, and there's nothing new
 about either:

 middlemen who were improperly motivated by the ability to profit from actions for
 which they wouldn't remain responsible, and
 buyers who believed too readily that return was available without proportionate risk
 and thus were willing to buy things they didn't understand.

 Errors in process, judgment and character like those of the last few years cannot be
 kept from occurring. All any of us can do is try to avoid joining in.


Memo: The Tide Goes Out.

For every period, there's a quotation which serves perfectly to explain what's going on,
 and I often find myself borrowing it. Warren Buffett provides more than his share; not
 only is his insight unmatched, but so is his ability to express it. Thus, starting with "It's
 All Good" last July, I've found frequent use for this one:

 When the tide goes out, we find out who's been swimming without a
 bathing suit.

 Certainly, "swimming without a bathing suit" - or perhaps a life preserver - serves
 beautifully to describe investor behavior during the carefree period that ended last
 summer. And equally, the ebbing of the tide - and the exposing of those who
 engaged in that behavior - sums up the unpleasant disclosures which have taken
 place since. Financial sector participants indulged in unprecedented amounts of
 leverage, innovation and risk taking between late 2002 and mid-2007, the consequences
 of which have become readily apparent.

 Leveraging and Inflating

 When we look at the last few years, we see a rather ordinary period of economic growth
 and prosperity, accompanied by good corporate health and profitability. But what
 distinguished this period from all others was a runaway boom in financial sector
 activity. The whole financial sector inflated, like a balloon into which increasingly more
 hot air was forced.

 The greatest contributor to the 2002-07 boom likely was leverage; the recent past saw a
 steady flow of equity capital to levered entities, accompanied by willingness on the part
 of lenders to provide unprecedented amounts of leverage. Now the reversal of that
 process is underway, with consequences that are equally dramatic but much less pleasant.

 Let's review the process which was often described and embraced as a virtuous circle:

 Equity capital was provided to would-be leveraged entities.
 Debt was readily available for them to use in expanding their total capital and thus
 their ability to pursue profit.
 This combined capital was used to purchase assets, forcing prices higher.
 Price appreciation caused the entities' equity to expand at a faster rate thanks to their
 financial leverage.

 The increases in equity were matched by further increases in borrowings.
 In fact, the good performance convinced lenders to increase the amount of leverage
 they would supply per dollar of equity. This meant the entities could grow their
 portfolios even faster than the rates at which equity capital flowed in and assets
 appreciated.
 Further, because of the seeming impregnability of the leveraged entities' profitability,
 risk aversion shrank and the risk premiums and returns demanded by lenders
 declined. Leverage became cheaper and thus even more attractive.
 As is typical of virtuous circles, everything ran smoothly . . . for a while: additional
 equity flowed in; it was leveraged up increasingly; buying caused assets to appreciate
 further; and the upward spiral continued.

 With things working increasingly well and investors becoming more and more
 excited, processes like this one seem destined to go on forever. Of course, they
 cannot. But people forget that, satisfying one of the key prerequisites for a cycle
 that goes to excess. Overestimating the longevity of up legs and down legs is one of
 the mistakes that investors insist on repeating.

 Deleveraging and Deflating

 Over the years I've written a number of memos about cycles, and in each one I've
 tried to remind readers that trees don't grow to the sky, and that success carries
 within itself the seeds of failure. Just as the balloon of levered entities expanded
 beyond reason in the last few years, now it's well into the process of deflating. And, as I
 mentioned in "Now What?" the air always goes out a lot faster than it went in.

 Eventually, developments that are exogenous to the process interfere, or perhaps the
 process collapses of its own weight. In the current instance, consider subprime
 mortgages. The process described above was going along just fine, with increasing
 numbers of ever-larger mortgages being granted to cover a rising percentage of the cost
 of houses bought at rising prices by borrowers of declining creditworthiness. So far, so
 good: a process unhampered by discipline or restraint. But it must be seen that,
 eventually, reality will intrude. For example, eventually the amounts borrowed will
 necessitate payments that exceed what the borrowers can afford. Oops; investors forgot
 that part.

 To understand what's going on now, all you have to do is reverse the process described
 above and squeeze (the squeeze - the force behind the deflating - comes from the pain
 that accompanies disclosure of the process's flaws).

 Something causes asset prices to weaken.
 Now the leverage works in reverse, causing the entities' equity to shrink faster than
 the rate of decline in asset prices, and their ratios of borrowings to assets to rise.
 Lenders, worried about declining asset prices, either call in their loans or refuse to roll
 over debt when it matures. In some cases, the entities' now-shrunken collateral fails a

 market value test and triggers a margin call, which can be met only through the
 posting of additional collateral (which usually isn't available) or sales of assets
 (which add to market weakness).
 Further, with the world suddenly feeling much riskier, lenders demand increased risk
 premiums, raising the cost of borrowed funds and further impairing borrowers'
 economics.
 Equity investors - panicked by the combination of asset price declines, leveraged
 equity losses and margin calls - withdraw equity capital to the extent they can. The
 sight of investors lining up at the withdrawal window, and often being told they can't
 have their money, adds to the negative climate.
 The need to raise cash with which to satisfy the demands of lenders and equity
 investors places further downward pressure on asset prices, reinforcing what is
 suddenly a vicious circle. Fire sales of collateral add to this pressure.
 In particular, think what happens to banks. In this negative environment, it's hard to
 imagine these highly leveraged entities extending credit, given that (a) banks' equity
 is shrinking, (b) they feel they may need the money themselves, and (c) they fear
 further losses on loans and assets.

 It shouldn't come as a surprise that this vicious circle seems as obvious and inescapable
 as did the virtuous one just a short time earlier. This is the point at which we may start to
 hear talk about the unstoppable downward spiral and thus the pending collapse of the
 financial system. Unquestioning euphoria gives way to full-blown depression.

 Mark-to-Market Accounting

 If you watch enough cop shows on TV, you know that investigators of suspicious fires
 use the term "accelerant" for the chemical used by an arsonist to encourage the spread of
 a blaze. The current capital market cycle has been accelerated by an element that was
 added to the capital market equation in the 1990s: mark-to-market accounting.

 In the simpler but still not totally stable financial world I entered forty years ago, stability
 was desired in financial institutions. So, for example, banks and insurance companies
 were allowed to carry a loan or a bond at cost on their balance sheets as long as it was (a)
 fundamentally unimpaired and (b) intended to be held to maturity. Even if its market
 value fell temporarily, it was assumed that a creditworthy claim would be repaid in full at
 maturity. Thus, price fluctuations were ignored as long as fundamentals were sound.

 More recently, "transparency," "accountability" and "market signals" became
 more highly prized. A lot of this had to do with skullduggery unearthed at companies
 like Enron. As a result, accounting increasingly came to require that assets be valued at
 actual or estimated market prices. I'd had a preview of this in 1990 when, as part of
 efforts to "get" the high yield bond industry (and Drexel and Milken), S&Ls were
 required to market price their holdings of high yield bonds - dooming many of them in a
 time of price weakness.

 There is no perfect accounting standard - just choices, with each alternative stronger on
 some desired traits but weaker on others. "Cost" is objective but often out of date and far
 from accurate. "Lower-of-cost-or-market" is conservative but asymmetrical in its error.
 "Market value" is contemporary but not always reliable; it discloses value declines faster
 than Enron did, but it also requires subjective judgments and bakes in price fluctuations
 that may prove transitory. So when accounting regulators mandated mark-to-market,
 they decided in favor of currentness and transparency but against stability with
 regard to marketable securities and objectiveness with regard to privates.

 (When we began to organize closed-end funds in 1988, and for about fifteen years
 thereafter, Bruce and I established a policy for valuing privates based on "cost unless
 there's been a change which is fundamental, material and permanent." We felt it served
 us well. But since Enron and Sarbanes-Oxley, we've been forbidden to use that
 approach. Now funds are required to price each asset based on opinions regarding its
 worth. We preferred the old way. Who's better served now?)

 Mark-to-market accounting turns out to be one of the main contributors to the current
 boom/bust cycle. In the old days, a bank (for example) would have carried assets at cost.
 In this decade's up years, since that bank was required to mark them to market, it was
 able to expand its balance sheet, and thus its operations, as assets appreciated in the
 virtuous circle. Equally, contracting asset values now mean the bank's portfolio is worth
 less, and that its equity is smaller and can support less debt and thus less lending. Loan
 portfolios have to be reduced, and new loans can't be made. A bank's regulatory capital
 can become insufficient; it's this, in part, that has been behind the banks' trips to
 sovereign wealth funds for re-equitization.

 Since they operate in a world that combines rigid regulatory capital requirements,
 high leverage, fluctuating asset prices and, now, mark-to-market accounting,
 financial institutions can fail to be viable in extreme bear markets. (And as The Wall
 Street Journal of March 6 said, "What's the difference between a hedge fund and a bank?
 Banks are more highly leveraged.")

 In 1990, when high yield bonds had the brush with difficulty described above (meaning
 spreads widened to 1,100 basis points, and a law was passed that required S&Ls to reflect
 price declines on their balance sheets), I was asked to brief the board of TCW on the
 risks. I presented a parable about a regulated financial institution that went bankrupt
 under the weight of mark-to-market accounting. I joked with Bill Spencer, who was
 president of Citibank when I worked there, that in the 1980s, that could have been
 Citibank if it was required to recognize mark-to-market losses on real estate loans.
 Guess what: today that's the rule.

 This raises one of my favorite questions: what's an asset's price?

 Is it what you could get for it if you wanted to sell it?
 Is it what you would have to pay to buy it?
 Is it the price to buy or sell $1 million worth, or $100 million worth?

 Is it the likely proceeds from the patient sale of an asset in isolation, or what you'd
 get for it as part of a large portfolio that has to be liquidated in one day?
 Is it the price in today's chaotic market, or what the price would be in a calmer one?
 And if the latter, who says what that is?
 Is it Goldman's price or Morgan's? Or the average of the two? And what if you find
 out that Lehman's is lower than both of them?
 What's the price if the asset doesn't trade? Or if you hold the whole thing and have
 no intention to sell?

 I don't have the answer. Mainly because there is no answer. In short, an asset
 doesn't have "a price." It has many possible prices, and no one can say which is the
 right one. The ads for a jeweler here in Los Angeles lead with a great headline:
 "guaranteed to appraise for more." In other words, either (a) he sells jewelry for less than
 it's worth (and, if so, why?), or (b) he sells things for what they're worth but guarantees
 they'll appraise for more, which makes you wonder about the appraisals. The way I see
 it, the appraisals he touts are just as meaningless as many of the "market prices" being
 used today to price assets at banks, hedge funds, CDOs and CLOs.

 A view has begun to be expressed that mark-to-market accounting - in conjunction with
 the vicious circle that prevails today - is causing asset values to be understated, writeoffs
 to be overstated, and the credit crisis to be exaggerated. Certainly there's every reason to
 believe that:

 Assets are being valued based on what people will pay for them (which is the goal),
 but with few people in a buying mood, market prices can far understate value.
 Supply and demand have completely supplanted fundamentals in determining prices.
 With little trading taking place, assets are often priced via reference to indices. But
 those indices fluctuate wildly in connection with speculation and hedging activity,
 and they may have little relevance to the individual asset being priced.
 Lenders are switching their valuations of collateral from going concern basis to
 liquidation basis.
 Margin calls are resulting in liquidations, which depress prices, leading to more
 margin calls.

 It's hard to believe these are really the bases on which financial institutions should
 value their trillion-dollar balance sheets. But we're stuck for now with mark-to-
 market accounting. At minimum, you should expect it to contribute extensively to
 continued volatility. Believe me, it already has.

 "Should" ≠ "Will"

 Lately I've enjoyed comparisons of recent developments to Frankenstein's loss of control
 over his monster, or to a man-made mutation that has escaped from the laboratory.
 Extensive financial sector experimentation took place involving unprecedented
 combinations of volatile elements such as leverage, securitization, tranching, derivatives

 and mark-to-market accounting. In the lab, experimental microbes would be quarantined
 until their dangers were fully understood. In the financial markets of this decade, on the
 other hand, they were rapidly popularized and peddled world-wide.

 In 1998, Long-Term Capital Management became the poster child for the ability of
 sophisticated investment strategies to malfunction with grave consequences. This hedge
 fund invested in a highly diverse portfolio of fixed income arbitrage positions. These
 were situations where two related assets were trading in violation of their normal price
 relationship: one was a little more expensive relative to the other than history said it
 should be. LTCM bought into these small mispricings in large quantities, on enormous
 leverage, in the expectation that they would correct. The explanation for its subsequent
 meltdown was simple, according to the founder, John Meriwether: "The Fund added to
 its positions in anticipation of convergence, yet . . . the trades diverged dramatically."

 For years these memos have quoted my good friend, Bruce Newberg, as saying,
 "Improbable things happen all the time, and things that are supposed to happen
 often fail to do so." Acting in excessive reliance on the fact that something "should
 happen" can kill you when it doesn't. That's why I always remind people about the 6-
 foot-tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was 5 feet deep on average. You
 have to be able to get through the low points. And the success of your investment actions
 shouldn't depend on normal outcomes prevailing; instead, you must allow for outliers.

 Recent tales from the bust include a number of disasters that arose because things didn't
 work as they were supposed to:

 Although defaults should be independent, subprime-related securities collapsed when
 mortgage borrowers all over the country began to default at the same time.
 Auction rate notes should have delivered the benefits of both long-term financing
 (permanence) and short-term financing (low rates), because frequent rate resets
 should have eliminated the price risk that accompanies fixed-rate long-term debt
 holdings. But the reset process failed to work when the auctions attracted no bidders.
 At the top in commercial real estate during the second quarter of 2007, real estate
 investors were willing to buy New York office buildings at 31⁄2% cash yields (with
 money borrowed at 51⁄2%) because (a) rents should double to $150 sq. ft./year or,
 anyway, (b) someone else should be willing to pay more for it. So far . . . no.
 "Absolute return funds" should provide steady returns without vulnerability to
 market fluctuations. It turned out, however, that only completely hedged vehicles are
 completely without market correlation, and now a good absolute return fund may be
 one that goes down only half as much.
 A London hedge fund called Peloton gained 87% in 2007 and was named Credit
 Hedge Fund of the Year in January. Its long positions in AAA mortgage paper
 should have continued to hold up better than its subprime shorts. But the AAAs
 declined this year, and they'd bought enough on leverage to make the fund melt down
 in February.
 Credit default swaps should serve as a great way to transfer credit risk. But the
 market grew out of control - to $40-odd trillion of insurance coverage on $6 trillion

 of debt - and no one knows just how it'll all work out. When CDS are traded around,
 the people who bought coverage have no way of knowing if their insurers' capital is
 adequate. Thus, efforts to off-load credit risk may have replaced it with
 "counterparty risk."

 Clearly, investors only make investments because they expect them to work out, and
 their analysis will center on the likely scenarios. But they mustn't fixate on that
 which is supposed to happen to the exclusion of the other possibilities . . . and load
 up on risk and leverage to the point where negative outcomes will do them in.

 At the same time, however, it's very hard to figure out how broad the range of
 considered possibilities should be. No investment action can withstand every possible
 development. Is there really such a thing as a "worst case assumption" short of a total
 loss? I often find myself asking one of the classic questions in investing: How much
 effort and capital should we devote to preparing for the improbable disaster?

 Many of the recent problems occurred because investors expected outcomes other than
 the ones that arose. Had they been too optimistic? Or did the environment simply throw
 curves that no one should have been expected to handle?

 Leverage and Risk

 Two important investment principles should be embraced concerning leverage and risk:

 First, leverage magnifies outcomes but doesn't add value. I've said that so often that I
 ought to stop. But just a few reminders:

 Leverage magnifies losses as well as gains. In Las Vegas, they say, "The more you
 bet, the more you win when you win." But they always forget to add ". . . and the
 more you lose when you lose." Leverage is just a way to bet more.

 Leverage magnifies outcomes but doesn't add value. It will make for higher highs
 and lower lows, and it might even produce an increase in the expected value . . .
 assuming outcomes are normal. But it can't make something a fundamentally better
 investment. Thus, leverage absolutely cannot be equated to the contribution to
 return that comes from skill in selecting investments or in restructuring
 company operations or finances.

 From time to time, people come up with structures that are purported to add to an
 investment's upside without adding proportionally to its downside. They rarely work.
 Or, expressed properly, it makes no sense to expect them to enhance the expected
 return without increasing the range of outcomes and the risk of loss. You may be
 able to take an investment with a 10% promised return and turn it into a vehicle that
 has a 90% chance of earning 13% and a 10% chance of losing everything. But can

 you end up with something that has a higher expected return but isn't riskier?
 That's too good to be true.

 Finally, in addition to magnifying losses as well as gains, leverage carries an extra
 risk on the downside that isn't offset by accompanying upside: the risk of ruin.
 Leverage, when added to losses, can lead to margin calls and meltdowns. There is no
 corresponding benefit. This lesson is being well learned today.

 Second, every investment or portfolio entails a variety of risks, and its overall risk is
 the sum of those.

 Every investment embodies both the specific risk related to the individual company or
 asset and the systematic risk that is a function of its membership in a market - its beta.
 There also can be liquidity risk, legal risk, currency risk and political risk. Finally, risk is
 introduced by the structure in which an asset is held. Here I'm referring to the risk that
 comes with leverage.

 To simplify for my current purpose, risk comes from the combination of what you
 buy and how you finance it. You can buy very risky assets, but if you don't lever up to
 do so, you'll never lose them to a margin call. Or you can buy fundamentally safe assets,
 but the combination of enough leverage and a sufficiently hostile environment can cause
 a meltdown. In other words, investing in "safe" assets isn't necessarily safe,
 particularly if you've borrowed to buy them.

 We've seen this at work in recent days, as entities that invested in top-quality assets have
 run into trouble. For example, Carlyle Capital Corp. ("CCC") invested in AAA-rated
 debt of the two government-sponsored housing agencies, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
 But it levered its equity 31 times to do so, buying $21.7 billion of securities on the basis
 of just $670 million of equity. That meant that if values declined 3%, its equity would be
 gone. Worried bankers pulled back their loans; CCC received margin calls it couldn't
 meet; the banks seized its assets; and the fund melted down.

 Investment safety doesn't come from doing safe things, but from doing things safely. Put
 another way, anything can be screwed up by using so much leverage that its fluctuations
 can't be survived. That's why, in writing about LTCM in "Genius Isn't Enough"
 (January 1999), I said leverage + volatility = dynamite.

 Financial Self-Destruction

 The dramatic cyclical up leg of nearly five years (I'd say November 2002 through June
 2007), as well as the far shorter but equally dramatic down leg that started last summer,
 have given me opportunity to reflect on a number of phenomena to be noted and lessons
 to be learned. You've seen the results in the last three memos ("No Different This
 Time," "Now What?" and "Whodunit"). I've reached a new view of how some things
 work, based on tying together several separate observations.

 I've pointed out that one of the reasons models can fail to work is because
 markets are dynamic, not static. Through frequent play, you can increase your
 mastery over a golf course, as you learn the consequences of each action and thus
 which are the right ones: if you hit the ball to spot A it'll roll toward the hole,
 whereas if you hit to spot B it'll roll toward the water. Eventual mastery is possible
 because the golf course doesn't change in response to your play. But fixing on tactics
 through which to master a market is unavailing, because the market is shaped by
 those who participate in it, and thus it responds and changes. No course of
 investment action - even if executed perfectly - can be right for all markets and all
 times. In fact, when an approach becomes too well accepted, the widespread
 reliance on it becomes a source of danger.

 I've devoted a lot of ink to Wall Street's innovation of financial products. Innovation
 becomes possible in up markets, when optimistic investors:

 o think about what might work and dismiss the likelihood of failure,
 o are willing to give something new the benefit of the doubt,
 o are impressed by early, easy successes, and
 o fear the consequences of failing to emulate competitors who enjoy those
 successes.

 In the last five years, these factors abetted unprecedented financial innovation,
 as quants assured prospective investors that the "fat-tail" events that could
 cause the new products to fail were most unlikely to occur.

 But while the quants' predictions usually center on the high probability that
 events will fall within the normal range, the last nine months have given all of us
 the opportunity to witness events at the extreme. This started last summer, when
 "once-in-a-lifetime events" became common. David Viniar, CFO of Goldman Sachs,
 may be remembered for saying in August that "we were seeing things that were 25-
 standard deviation moves, several days in a row." It's unusual for 100-year floods to
 become daily occurrences, but sometimes they do.

 Finally, I've reminded readers about past bull market innovations that promised
 miracles but often failed when tested in bear markets. One of the most easily
 recognized of these is "portfolio insurance." PI was a statistically derived technique
 that would enable equity exposure to be increased without a commensurate increase
 in risk. This was made possible by a process through which computer-generated sell
 orders would be implemented automatically in the event of a market decline,
 instantaneously scaling back portfolio risk. PI had its heyday in the period just before
 "Black Monday." But then, on October 19, 1987, the U.S. stock market declined
 20%; beleaguered brokers didn't answer their phones; the sell orders weren't
 implemented; and PI ceased to be heard of.

 A few months ago, the twentieth anniversary of Black Monday gave me the opportunity
 to reflect on the short life of portfolio insurance. I began to think - and now I'm
 convinced - that PI didn't fail because Black Monday just happened to occur.
 Rather, it contributed to Black Monday's occurrence, and thus to its own demise.

 In my December memo "No Different This Time" I listed twelve lessons of 2007.
 Number four said that "widespread disregard for risk creates great risk." In that way, in
 1987 the widespread belief that equity exposure could be increased without similarly
 increasing risk led to an unjustified - and unsustainable - expansion of equity
 allocations. And the carefree buying this generated led to elevated stock prices from
 which a retreat was increasingly likely. When the S&P 500 fell 10% on the
 Wednesday-Friday leading up to Black Monday and users of PI had the weekend to think
 things over, it seems they concluded that they had accepted too much risk; that they
 couldn't depend on PI to save them; and that they had to dump stocks en masse. Thus,
 this innovation was not undone by a chance event. Its undoing was brought about
 by an event which it had, at least in part, caused.

 Innovation generally requires bullish assumptions, and thus it's easily accomplished in
 bullish times. Those optimistic assumptions add to the risk in the environment, and when
 eventually proved to be too rosy, they contribute to losses and to the products' failure.
 The naked swimming which is encouraged by the rising tide certainly is exposed
 when the tide goes out. But I'd go further: in the dynamic environment of the
 marketplace, naked swimming eventually can cause the tide to go out.

 A New Kind of Crisis

 People ask me whether things look familiar, and how this cycle compares to others I've
 experienced. I tell them this one's different in both degree and kind.

 We've had collapses in the past, but never so broad-gauged and systemic. The earlier
 ones were the result of things going on in specific sectors or regions: LBO debt in 1990,
 real estate in 1992-94, emerging markets in 1997-98, and tech/telecom stocks in 2000-02.
 Most people would prefer to see the weakness centered in specific areas . . . and thus
 containable, treatable and avoidable.

 This bust isn't sector-based, although it was ignited first in subprime mortgages. Instead,
 it stems from the broad application of the techniques I've been discussing: leverage,
 securitization, tranching and derivatives. Because Wall Street applied those techniques in
 so many ways, the current problems are generalized and pervasive and have the ability to
 cause losses in a wide variety of areas, irrespective of the underlying fundamentals.

 The current bust arose against a backdrop of healthy fundamentals. The economy was
 growing. Commercial real estate wasn't overbuilt. Bond defaults were at record lows.
 Yet huge markdowns have taken place in these areas. Thus the solution will not come

 from addressing localized fundamental problems. Instead, the problem is hydra-headed,
 affecting a large number of areas due to contagion. Larry Summers put it this way:

 You have three vicious cycles going on simultaneously. A liquidity
 vicious cycle -- in which asset prices fall, people sell and therefore prices
 fall more; a Keynesian vicious cycle -- where people's incomes go down,
 so they spend less, so other people's income falls and they spend less; and
 a credit accelerator, where economic losses cause financial problems that
 cause more real economy problems.

 There is no schematic diagram for the workings of the economy and the markets, as
 in "if we do A, the result will be B." That's particularly true for the current crisis, since
 some of the financial techniques that gave rise to it are new; others haven't been used to
 the same extent; and they've never been combined as they were in the last few years. In
 particular, the workings of economies and markets depend heavily on psychology,
 which can't be treated as if it's hard-wired. Thus the people trying to address this bust
 can only work from hypotheses and try possibilities.

 The Fed and the administration are determined to solve the problem, but we're unlikely
 to have the unwind we need without pain. As I wrote in "Whodunit," in order for
 efficient capital allocation decisions to be made, an economic system that aims to create
 capital has to witness capital destruction from time to time. Efforts to avoid the pain
 would cause problems like unrecognized bad loans to linger, delaying a solution. I'm no
 expert, but it makes sense to me that the quantum of pain on the way down has to at
 least approach the pleasure everyone felt during the boom.

 Other than just through the passage of time, the solution to the credit crunch - to
 the extent there is one - might be found in short-circuiting the deleveraging process
 described on pages 2 and 3. Thus, the authorities will try to get people to:

 face the music by recognizing and writing down problem assets,
 borrow money, even though the possible uses for it may seem ill-fated,
 make loans, despite the scarcity of capital and the risk of loss, and
 buy assets that are underpriced, even though prices seem only to go lower.

 Interest rate cuts have made borrowing cheaper, and there will be more. Loans to banks
 will give them money they can turn around and lend. The government's decision to let
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac make bigger loans should make capital available in the
 starved housing market. If necessary, a government backstop of the agencies would do
 even more (but it also would introduce moral hazard). A holiday from capital
 requirements would allow regulated financial institutions to take writeoffs and clear their
 balance sheets without having to worry about falling below minimums. They might even
 try suspending mark-to-market accounting.

 The Fed's recent announcement that it will swap Treasury securities for AAA-rated
 mortgage debt that isn't trading well is such an attempt to stem the deleveraging process.
 If things go as the Fed hopes, this exchange should:

 take some mortgage paper out of circulation, improving the supply/demand balance
 and relieving the downward pressure on prices,
 make it more palatable to hold and buy mortgage paper and, especially, for dealers to
 maintain inventories and make markets in it,
 reduce yields, and thus the cost of money in the economy, and
 give institutions collateral against which they can borrow (and then lend).

 The collapse of Bear Stearns, on the other hand, illustrates a few important limitations.
 Brokers, like other financial institutions, are highly leveraged entities. The nature of their
 assets makes it impossible for them to repay their liabilities on demand. Thus, none can
 survive a "run on the bank" stemming from a loss of confidence. As I said in "The Race
 to the Bottom," they all offer the same product - basically, money - and if confidence
 declines, nobody will say, "Okay, there's a 5% chance I'll lose my capital, or access to it
 for a while, but it's worth it because their product is so superior." Who'll stay despite a
 decline in confidence? No one. And what financial institution absolutely can't be
 the subject of a loss of confidence? I'll let you answer that.

 Where Will It End?

 When I was a kid, there were a lot of cartoons showing men carrying sandwich boards
 (who remembers what they were?) that said, "The end of the world is at hand." So far,
 though, they've been wrong. Likewise, people said we had approached the end of the
 financial system around Black Monday in 1987, and when LTCM melted down in 1998.
 But we're still here. It seems we muddle through, despite all attempts to screw things up.
 It's my guess we always will.

 It's tempting for worriers like me to consider apocalyptic possibilities. But it's not
 productive, so I've quit. I can come up with "China Syndrome" theories, but (a) I can't
 give them a high probability of coming to pass, and (b) there's little I can do. The things
 one would do to gird for the demise of the financial system will turn out to be huge
 mistakes if the outcome is anything else . . . and chances are high that it will be.

 * * *

 Fortunately, one of the most valuable lessons of my career came in the early 1970s, when
 I learned about the three stages of a bull market:

 the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone's sure things will get better forever.

 Buying during the first stage can be highly profitable, while buying during the last will
 carry you over the cliff with the rest of the herd.

 Relatively few people were eager to buy at the depressed prices of 2002-03. But buying
 grew in 2004-05 as prices rose and bargains became scarcer, and the pace became
 fevered in 2006 and the first half of 2007. This trend was captured in the soaring
 amounts investors committed to U.S. buyout funds:

 This growth in buyout capital was spurred on by high reported IRRs, which in turn were
 facilitated by dividend recaps and quick flips, themselves a symptom of the increasingly
 overheated capital market environment. Had the high IRRs been the result of genuine
 investment skill or just well-timed risk taking? So far we've learned a little about who
 swam naked - that is, for whom it was the latter rather than the former. We'll know for
 sure when the tide is fully out.

 To aid in your consideration of the future, I've formulated the converse of the above, the
 three stages of a bear market:

 the first, when just a few prudent investors recognize that, despite the prevailing
 bullishness, things won't always be rosy,
 the second, when most investors recognize things are deteriorating, and
 the third, when everyone's convinced things can only get worse.

 Certainly we're well into the second of these three stages. There's been lots of bad news
 and writeoffs. More and more people recognize the dangers inherent in things like
 innovation, leverage, derivatives, counterparty risk and mark-to-market accounting. And
 increasingly the problems seem insolvable.

 One of these days, though, we'll reach the third stage, and the herd will give up on there
 being a solution. And unless the financial world really does end, we're likely to
 encounter the investment opportunities of a lifetime. Major bottoms occur when
 everyone forgets that the tide also comes in. Those are the times we live for.


Memo: The Aviary.

Rather than dwell this time on a single subject, I want to cover a few. They may not seem
related at first, but I believe they're birds of a feather.

A Dead Duck
U

While it's important that we have a sense for where we stand in terms of the market cycle,
figuring that out can require some sophisticated inference. It's not often that we get crystal clear
evidence of the pendulum's swing, or get it in short order. That's what makes the case I'll
describe so distinctive.

"The Race to the Bottom" (February 2007) is one of my favorite memos. I think it presented
clear evidence of the degree to which the pendulum of innovation and risk taking had swung to
the undisciplined end of its arc. As I described, I was prompted to write it by an article in the
Financial Times of November 1, 2006, which reported the following:

 Abbey, the UK's second-largest home loans provider, has raised the standard
 amount it will lend homebuyers to five times either their single or joint salaries,
 eclipsing the traditional borrowing levels of around three and a half times salary.
 It followed last week's decision by Bank of Ireland Mortgages and Bristol and
 West to increase standard salary multiples from four to 4.5 times.

After quoting that paragraph, I went on to draw what I thought was the compelling conclusion:

 Any way you slice it, standards for mortgage loans have dropped in recent
 years, and risk has increased. Logic-based? Perhaps. Cycle-induced (and
 exacerbated)? I'd say so. The FT quoted John Paul Crutchley, a banking
 analyst at Merrill Lynch, as saying "When Abbey are lending a multiple of five
 times salary, that could be perfectly sensible - or it could be tremendously risky."
 Certainly mortgage lending was made riskier. We'll see in a few years whether
 that was intelligent risk taking or excessive competitive ardor.

Auctions were taking place in the capital markets, and suppliers of capital were bidding against
each other to make deals. In the case of UK home mortgages, the right to make loans would go
to the institution willing to lend the highest multiple of annual salary . . . that is, willing to accept
the most risk. In the last few years, there were many ways in which lenders and investors vied
for deal flow on the basis of lowered return expectations and heightened risk. I considered
Abbey's decision emblematic of this trend.

Thus, you can imagine my reaction upon reading the following in the Financial Times of
April 8:

 First-time buyers with no cash savings were shut out of the housing market
 yesterday after Abbey became the last mainstream lender to stop offering 100 per
 cent mortgages. Borrowers who a month ago had a choice of mortgages offering
 100 per cent of a property's value, will now need a deposit of at least 5 per cent
 . . . More than 20 lenders . . . offered 100 per cent mortgages at the start of last
 month. These have been pulled out of the market one by one as banks and
 building societies have distanced themselves from riskier lending.

Eighteen months ago, Abbey was the first to take lending standards to a new low in terms of
times-salary-loaned. Now, it's the last to raise them with regard to down payments. Can there
be a clearer example of the credit cycle at work?

For now, high-risk, no-worries lending seems to be a dead duck, a casualty of the
corrections in risk aversion and demanded returns that have accompanied - or are at the
root of - the current credit crunch. At the highs of the credit cycle, anyone can get money for
any purpose. At the lows, even deserving borrowers are shut out. The former is highly
expansionary, and the latter depresses economic activity. It'll always be so.

The Canard of Free Market Infallibility
U

"Canard" is the French word for "duck." In English, however, a "canard" is "a false or
 T

unfounded report or story ." That English meaning comes from the French phrase "vendre des
 T

canards à moitié": to cheat, literally, to half-sell ducks.

A canard gained broad acceptance over the last decade or two, as faith in the ability of the
free market to optimally allocate assets morphed into an irrational expectation that the free
market would produce a continually rising tide, lifting all boats and bringing a better life
for everyone. Here's my version of the saga.

One of the longest cycles I've witnessed has taken place in the area of government involvement
in the financial industry. Prior to 1929 (I wasn't around for this part), there was little regulation.
When much of the subsequent market collapse was attributed to improper conduct in investment
banking and in investments generally, this led to significant new regulation.

For an interesting look at behavior in the 1920s, I'd recommend Wall Street Under Oath, written
in 1939 by Ferdinand Pecora, who led the Senate investigation into the causes of the Great Crash
and then became a New York State judge. It's a scathing indictment: imagine Wall Street
operating in the 1920s unhampered by today's securities laws. Among other things, the Street's
conduct led to the enactment of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 that mandated the divorce of
commercial banks from investment banks, the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Thus a strong regulatory regime prevailed - particularly under the

Democrats who controlled the White House for 28 of the 36 years from 1933 to 1969, and the
Senate for 44 of the 48 years from 1933 to 1981. (In America, regulation is generally associated
with Democrats and liberalism, and deregulation with Republicans and conservatism.)

The last 28 years have been very different, however, thanks primarily to Ronald Reagan and
Margaret Thatcher, bolstered by centrist Clinton and Blair administrations, and helped along by
Bush, Bush and Brown. For much of that time, the Fed was under the leadership of Alan
Greenspan, who is philosophically indebted to Ayn Rand, a strong believer in free markets.
Free-market solutions were deemed certain to yield optimal economic decisions.
Deregulation, privatization and market pricing went into full swing. Government
involvement in policy making and control was disrespected. In short, it was assumed that
the profit motive - Adam Smith's "invisible hand" - would maximize capital efficiency
and, therefore, societal welfare.

This trend reached its apogee in the last ten years. The Glass-Steagall Act was nullified; this
allowed, for example, the combination of Citibank and Salomon Brothers. Other than lowering
interest rates and providing liquidity to fend off weakness, the Fed employed a hands-off
approach. Investment managers and investment bankers gained fame and huge fees for
performance that showed which of them were the most talented. In every corner, the cry was
"let the market decide."

Clearly, however, the events of recent years attest to excesses prompted by the profit
motive. More was better: more leverage, more innovation, higher ratings for a given security
and more activity in areas like residential real estate. Equally clearly, not all of the free-
market decisions were salutary; the proof can be found in the fact that laissez-faire has
landed us in a financial crisis that some observers consider the potentially most serious
since the Depression.

How can we reconcile theory and practice: the way free-market decisions are supposed to work
and the way they do work? The answer lies, I think, in the difference between short term and
long, and in the coexistence of beneficial general trends and harmful exceptions. Free markets
allocate resources efficiently in the long run. But they can't make the tide rise continually,
and while some boats rise, others will crash. Properly functioning free markets will give
rise to times that set the stage for ruin, and then to times of ruin itself. They must create
losers as well as winners, and capital destruction as well as capital creation.

In pursuit of profit in a free market, people can engage in any behavior that's not illegal. (Well,
actually, they can do illegal things too, but hopefully not for long.) Ethical considerations
constrain some but not all, and ethicality seems to wax and wane. There's no doubt that profit
pursuers sometimes push the envelope. Examples?

 The fees for appraising houses and rating securities went to those willing to assign the
 highest values. Did they let this affect their valuations?

 Thanks to disintermediation, financial institutions saw that they could earn fees for
 originating loans and selling them onward. Did the rewards for achieving volume displace
 the prudence they used to employ when putting their own capital at risk?

 Once financial engineers had built their new tranched products, they could sell them at lower
 yields (higher prices), sell more of them, and earn bigger fees if they could get them rated
 higher. For a given instrument, single-A was good, double-A was better and triple-A was
 best. The investment bankers marshaled the data and fed it into their models, tweaked to
 yield the best possible result. I find it hard to believe they ever said, "Wait a minute;
 triple-A's too high given the underlying collateral" or "It can't be triple-A, because
 there are a few scenarios that, although unlikely, would yield terrible results."

I'm not suggesting these people engaged in illegal activity or consciously did the wrong
thing. They were just trying to make more money for their employers and themselves. But
I believe their economic self-interest caused them to go to extremes in an environment that
allowed candor, skepticism and ethics to be forgotten in pursuit of revenue maximization.

A New Canard Takes Flight
U

Government involvement in the private sector is like hemlines: it goes up and down. But it does
so in very long cycles. It takes decades for it to reach maximums and minimums, and it can take
a long time for the error of the extremes to be exposed.

In the last couple of months, we've read a great deal about the need for increased regulation, and
there'll be more. There are several reasons for this:

 First, when there's a crisis, people tend to look for easy explanations. Insufficient regulation
 can be a good candidate.

 Members of the out-of-power political party can always make hay by blaming the governing
 party and its philosophy.

 The truth is, whichever philosophy is in the ascendancy will deserve some responsibility
 for crises . . . because no approach is perfect. Regulation will always produce red tape
 and some inefficient, non-market solutions, and deregulation will always permit a
 degree of cowboy behavior.

 It's easy to allege that the solution can be found in reversing the trend in regulation, and hard
 to disprove a priori.

So now the cry has been raised. People are jumping on the bandwagon, and those opposed are
trying to head it off with promises of better behavior and self-regulation. As the Financial Times
noted on April 10,

 Now credit and consumer confidence are ebbing, to the likely detriment of
 company profits. State intervention, which free marketers have argued against for
 centuries, has been royally legitimized.

Paul Volcker put it this way in the FT of April 12: "The bright new financial system - for all its
talented participants, for all its rich rewards - has failed the test of the marketplace." Belief in
free market omniscience has been laid to rest for a while.

The New York Times of April 15 described Bob Steel, Treasury Under Secretary for Domestic
Finance, as being highly optimistic about a "superregulator" or "market stability regulator" that
"would pass judgment on the capital levels, trading exposure and leverage of Wall Street's most
sophisticated institutions." Yet within just the last two years, it says, "Mr. Steel has been co-
chairman of one commission that claimed heavy-handed regulation was stanching financial
innovation and another that argued that hedge funds could police themselves." Times certainly
do change.

And in a sign of the times, breakingviews.com, an online interpreter of financial news, put it this
way on May 14:

 The hands-off approach to financial markets now looks neglectful. . . .
 Greenspan's laissez-faire attitude to asset prices went along with paying little
 attention to bank supervision and positively welcoming the growth of less
 regulated financial institutions. Trusting financial markets to self-correct now
 looks wrongheaded. . . . The authorities need to relearn that financial markets
 are too important and too impulsive to be left to operate unconstrained.
 They work better with careful, consistent supervision. (Emphasis added)

In place of market-based decisions, we're likely to see more limits on free-market activity. I find
it impossible to believe that the government will do a better job than the market of allocating
assets and preventing excesses. But the current pain - when combined with regulation's avowed
goals of avoiding harm, limiting predatory conduct and protecting the little guy - will make the
trend hard to resist. As Martin Wolf wrote in the FT of April 16,

 More regulation is on its way. After frightening politicians and policy makers so
 badly, even the most optimistic banker must realize this. The question is
 whether the additional regulation will do any good. (Emphasis added)

Some specific actions have the potential to increase financial security, such as (a) increases in the
capital reserves required against complex structured products and off-balance-sheet vehicles and
(b) full and detailed disclosure of the latter. Some increase in regulation seems appropriate,
especially with regard to off-balance-sheet entities, the source of most of the banks' losses. It's
remarkable that just six years after Enron, where the worst abuses were hidden off balance sheet,
another crisis was able to arise there. Banks benefit from deposit insurance (the government's
seal of approval) and access to cheap Fed funds. Thus it's reasonable that, in exchange, all of
their entities should be tightly regulated. This is especially true since it's been made clear that
non-bank activities won't be permitted to sink our large banks.

But I think there are dozens of reasons why generally increased regulation won't work to the
hoped-for extent. Here are my first twelve:

1. It's far easier to find holes in regulations than to plug them. Financial professionals
 innovate and expand. Regulators must try to catch up, often with outdated tools. By the time
 new rules are enacted, the financiers have moved on to invent new products and open new
 loopholes.

2. It's a simple fact that the regulated are more financially motivated to act than the regulators
 are to respond. It's not without effect that investment bankers work two or three times as
 many hours per week as the people who're counted on to police them.

3. The most skillful regulators often move eventually to work in regulated institutions,
 weakening the effectiveness of the regulatory process and spilling its secrets.

4. Hedge funds and derivatives are behind many of the excesses, and it will be particularly
 hard to get them under control. Today, one huge area of uncertainty is credit default
 swaps, particularly with regard to capital adequacy and counterparty risk. It's not a
 coincidence that CDS are derivatives with heavy hedge fund involvement. How might they
 be regulated?

5. Derivatives are particularly hard to regulate because it's difficult to quantify the risk
 they entail. Let's take the simplest example: you sell someone a "naked call" that gives him
 the right to buy from you for $2 apiece 100 shares of a stock you don't own. If the stock
 goes to $5, you lose $300 (the difference between the $2 you've been paid and the $5 you
 now must pay to buy 100 shares to deliver). If it goes to $10, you're down $800. At $100,
 you're down $9,800. At $1,000, you're down $99,800. At $10,000, it's $999,800, and so
 on. With naked call writing (and its equivalent, naked short selling), the potential loss is
 theoretically unlimited. So what's the right amount of risk to show on your balance sheet?
 No one can say. Should it be the "worst case"? And what is that? Or how about a model-
 derived estimate of the likely outcome? The last few months certainly showed those to be
 useless.

6. It's worth noting that banks, probably the most regulated of our financial institutions,
 are reporting the biggest losses. Regulation can be improved and tightened, but it's
 hard to believe that it actually can be counted on to prevent crises. Similarly, the
 weaknesses in the mortgage loan generation process were huge, but no regulator spoke out
 against them.

7. It's been proposed that financial institutions should be required to stress-test their ability to
 cope in difficult times. But how bad an environment should they be able to survive? What is
 the worst case, and should banks have to prepare for it? If banks always were required to
 be able to survive the conditions of February and March, for instance, they might never
 make a loan.

8. Regulatory proposals are also likely to include calls for more and better risk
 management. But the risk management profession's exertions in the last ten years probably
 exceeded the sum of its efforts prior thereto. Those efforts certainly didn't head off the
 current crisis. In fact, it's highly likely that risk managers' blessings led to a false sense of
 security in recent years, and thus to more confident (and greater) risk taking.

9. Since many of the biggest recent errors occurred in the area of credit ratings, it's
 appropriate to ask whether regulation could make ratings more accurate. According to
 an article in the Herald Tribune of April 25,

 Senator Chris Dodd . . . practically begged Christopher Cox, the SEC chairman, to
 ask for new authority. He suggested that perhaps it would be a good idea to leave
 credit ratings to some kind of non-profit agency that would not have conflicts of
 interest. Both he and [Senator] Shelby suggested that the SEC should revoke the
 operating license of a credit rating agency that was wrong too often.

 Can you imagine anything along these lines working? Would you like to see credit ratings
 being set by an agency lacking economic motivation? Who would determine whether
 they'd been "wrong too often"? And would "wrong too often" include ratings that proved to
 be too low, or just too high? I've seen a lot of both in the last forty years.

10. Likewise, some of this cycle's greatest gaffes came from having people make loans who
 lacked an ongoing stake in their creditworthiness. So it's been suggested that lenders should
 be required to have money at risk in loans even after they've been securitized and sold
 onward. Could regulators possibly prevent a highly motivated lender from getting around
 this requirement? How, for instance, would they keep an institution from hedging its bets
 through offsetting positions in derivatives?

11. A number of the proposals I've read relate to financial executives' compensation. Bankers'
 bonuses should be related to performance that has been adjusted for the risks entailed. And
 they should be long-term in nature and subject to being clawed back if profits turn into losses
 later on. Can government possibly regulate compensation in the private sector? And
 should it under our system? I would say "no" to both.

12. Finally, the main things that gave rise to the pain this time around were imprudence,
 insufficient skepticism and excessive faith in innovation. The International Herald
 Tribune of March 29 said, "Democrats in Congress . . . are pushing for tougher restrictions
 on risky lending." And I read elsewhere a suggestion that mortgage lenders should have to
 act responsibly. How can these things be regulated? How might a regulator require good
 judgment, and how would it be measured?

I think Alan Greenspan did an excellent job of summing up the situation in an op-ed piece in the
Financial Times of April 7,

 Regulators, to be effective, have to be forward-looking to anticipate the next
 financial malfunction. This has not proved feasible. Regulators confronting real-

 time uncertainty have rarely, if ever, been able to achieve the level of future
 clarity required to act pre-emptively. Most regulatory activity focuses on
 activities that precipitated previous crises.

 Aside from far greater efforts to ferret out fraud (a long-time concern of mine),
 would a material tightening of regulation improve financial performance? I doubt
 it. The problem is not the lack of regulation but unrealistic expectations
 about what regulators are able to prevent. How can we otherwise explain how
 the UK's Financial Services Authority, whose effectiveness is held in such high
 regard, fumbled Northern Rock? Or in the US, our best examiners have
 repeatedly failed over the years. These are not aberrations.

 The core of the subprime problem lies with the misjudgments of the investment
 community. . . . Even with full authority to intervene, it is not credible that
 regulators would have been able to prevent the subprime debacle. (Emphasis
 added)

Martin Wolf sized the challenge in the FT of April 16:

 If regulation is to be effective, it must cover all relevant institutions and the entire
 balance sheet, in all significant countries; it must focus on capital, liquidity and
 transparency; and, not least, it must make finance less pro-cyclical.

That's a tall order. The results are unlikely to stack up well against the goals.

No, government intervention doesn't hold the key to a financial system existence free of
extremes and crises . . . any more than laissez-faire does. But the trend is likely to be in
the direction of regulation. The truth is that cycles, with their dangerous excesses, will
cease to occur only when human emotion and the pursuit of profit no longer go to
extremes. Neither government intervention nor the free market will ever produce that
result.

The Black Swan
U

The best-known bird around today is The Black Swan, the second book from Nassim Nicolas
Taleb. You may remember Taleb as the author of Fooled by Randomness, which I've described
as an essential read (see "Returns and How They Get That Way," October 2002, and "Pigweed,"
December 2006). He's an ex-hedge fund manager and self-styled philosopher whose books are
nearly impenetrable (I suspect intentionally). But they also contain some incredibly important
ideas.

The main thrust of Fooled by Randomness was that while many of the forces that shape
investment performance - or history in general - are random in nature, people often ignore that
fact and give them meaning that would be warranted only if they weren't random. Thus the top
performing investor in a given year may be the manager - in Taleb's terminology, the "lucky

idiot" - who took an extreme and unwise position and was bailed out by a highly improbable
event that occurred by chance. For that reason, one year of outstanding performance says
absolutely nothing about the likelihood of another.

The Black Swan continues in that vein, emphasizing the dangers of overestimating knowledge
and predictive power. The book gets its name - and its theme - from some unusual Australian
birds which, never having been seen before foreigners began to visit, were considered in Europe
not to exist.

According to Taleb, there are three criteria for a "black swan." The first two are that it should be
"an outlier" and carry "an extreme impact." The fact that these "highly consequential events"
are infrequently occurring and improbable often is taken to mean they're nonexistent and
impossible. The difference between the two may be small, but it's highly significant.

Taleb's third criterion is that black swan phenomena have "retrospective (though not
prospective) predictability." And because people are able to "concoct explanations" for them
after the fact, they end up believing themselves capable of understanding the causes and
predicting future occurrences. In short, they underestimate the limits on foreknowledge with
regard to these events - a regular theme of mine, as you know - and underrate the role of
randomness. To simplify their world and render it subject to established statistical analysis,
quants attribute standard properties - like the familiar bell-shaped curve - to events that are far
less regular than they should be for this approach to be valid.

The publication of The Black Swan last year was extremely well timed, because many of the
infamous recent events satisfy Taleb's criteria.

 The greatest errors in mortgage securitization arose because "home prices have never
 declined nationally" was taken to mean "home prices can't decline nationally."
 Innovative financial products were modeled on the basis of common probability distributions
 that may have been inapplicable to the phenomena being studied. Thus the possibilities were
 oversimplified by recent business school graduates who'd never been out bird-watching in
 the real world.
 In the end, events that had been described as highly unlikely happened. But they shouldn't
 have come as complete surprises and should have been anticipated. Models had led people to
 consider things with a 1% chance of loss as riskless. Once in a while, however, people
 need a reminder that "unlikely" isn't synonymous with "impossible." Black swans do
 occur.

Now, with the final bullet point above in mind, let's talk about the black swan as a practical
matter, not a topic for philosophic rumination. It's easy to say black swans should be prepared
for, and that the people who fell into the last few years' traps ignored obvious risks. My
December memo "No Different This Time" included the following among the key lessons of

 Investment survival has to be achieved in the short run, not on average over
 the long run. That's why we must never forget the six-foot-tall man who

 drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average. Investors have
 to make it through the low points.

This statement makes obvious sense. Certainly investors must brace for untoward developments.
There are lots of forms of financial activity that reasonably can be expected to work on average,
but they might give you one bad day on which you melt down because of a precarious structure
or excess leverage.

But is it really that simple? It's easy to say you should prepare for bad days. But how bad?
What's the worst case, and must you be equipped to meet it every day?

Like everything else in investing, this isn't a matter of black and white. The amount of risk
you'll bear is a function of the extent to which you choose to pursue return. The amount of
safety you build into your portfolio should be based on how much potential return you're
willing to forgo. There's no right answer, just trade-offs. That's why I went on from the above
as follows:

 Because ensuring the ability to [survive] under adverse circumstances is
 incompatible with maximizing returns in the good times, investors must
 choose between the two.

One of the most interesting questions I've pondered over the years is this: How much
should we spend - be it in the form of insurance premiums or forgone returns - to
protect against the "improbable disaster" (my term for the black swan)? But that's
all it remains: a question. It's for each of us to answer in our own way.

Birds on a Wire
U

There's an old riddle about ten birds sitting on a telephone wire. A hunter shoots one. How
many are left? The usual response is nine. But the correct answer is none; the rest are frightened
by the gunshot and fly away. Maybe it's a joke, but it illustrates the ease with which
ramifications - what my British friends call "knock-on effects" - are overlooked.

In "It's All Good . . . Really?" I discussed the way people were describing the events of last
summer as an isolated subprime crisis and ignoring the potential for contagion. Now most see
that the "subprime crisis" was just the first act in what might be a long period of generalized
economic difficulty and market weakness.

The longer I think about economic and investment trends, the more I view every
development as a reaction to something else. And you've probably noticed my inability to talk
about current events without discussing their precursors. I see the events since last summer -
and those that will stretch into the coming months and perhaps years - as a chain reaction:

 The subprime crisis resulted from trends that had been building during the preceding years:
 leverage, securitization and tranching, financial engineering, looser ratings, unregulated non-

 bank lending, weaker loan standards and rising risk tolerance. The risk embodied in these
 things came home to roost in residential mortgages first because it's there that they were
 applied to the greatest extent and to the weakest underlying collateral. Too many triple-A
 securities were created from each pool of non-investment grade mortgages, and they
 collapsed as soon as default rates surpassed the models' assumptions.

 The credit crunch was an obvious next step. A number of more generalized developments
 resulted from the mess in residential mortgages:

 o rising risk aversion,
 o higher demanded risk premiums, and thus lower prices for risky assets,
 o the withdrawal of leverage and liquidity,
 o leveraged fund meltdowns and frightening headlines,
 o losses at banks and thus endangerment of their capital adequacy, and
 o hoarding of capital and the unavailability of new loans.

 This resulted in problems at financial institutions. Losses on highly leveraged investments
 were sure to lead to a crisis mentality, which could morph easily into a plain old crisis. What
 are the characteristics of financial institutions?

 o high leverage,
 o near-total reliance on short-term deposits and borrowings to fund illiquid, longer-
 term assets,
 o risk bearing - that's what their business consists of, and it's by doing so that they
 earn lending spreads (if they borrowed safe and lent safe, where would the spread
 come from?), and
 o extremely low transparency.

 What greater recipe could there be for a drying up of confidence? If a financial
 institution loses the confidence of its customers, what's to prevent a run on the bank?
 Nothing, as the UK found out in September with Northern Rock and the US found out in
 March with Bear Stearns. And what can inject fear into an economy more than doubt about
 the safety of its financial institutions?

 The main shoe left to drop concerns the impact on the broader economy. Economies run
 on confidence. People spend on non-necessities because they expect the future to be good
 and their incomes to grow. Businesses expand plant, workforce and inventory because they
 expect sales to increase. Financial institutions lend because they expect to be repaid with
 interest. Investors provide capital because they expect the value of assets to increase. When
 doubt is shed on these expectations, the growth process stalls. When the economy contracts
 for two consecutive quarters, a recession is declared, and positive assumptions become
 further in doubt.

Already, businesses are reporting declining or disappointing earnings (even General Electric).
Unemployment is on the rise. Higher prices for oil and food are likely to cut into consumers'
ability to spend. And their psyches have been damaged by scary headlines they may or may not

understand. Consumer confidence is at low levels, and fewer Americans expect an improving
future. Much of the growth in consumer spending has been abetted by the more widespread
availability of credit. Now, less credit should mean less spending. These aren't the conditions
for a vibrant economy.

There's a strong consensus that we'll see a recession - and a possibility we're in one already.
GDP grew in the first quarter, but final sales were down and output increased only because
businesses added to inventories. These additions likely were involuntary, and when stopped or
reversed, GDP growth certainly could go negative.

Please note that a depressed economy isn't the end of the line. Slower consumer and industrial
activity could feed back to the beginning of the process, causing further house price depreciation,
further write-downs, a further credit contraction and so forth. And then, when levels get low
enough, something mysteriously will cause the cycle to turn positive.

Things don't happen in isolation in economies and markets. Birds do flock together. The
implications of past events will spread further.

Phoenix from the Ashes?
U

As always, there's a tug-of-war going on between the optimists and the pessimists. This time,
however, the stakes are unusually high and the rhetoric proportional to the potentially
momentous consequences.

Over the last few weeks, the markets rose based on statements to the effect that the worst had
passed: "We're closer to the end than the beginning" (Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs).
"Maybe 75 to 80 percent over. . . " (Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase). The worst is "behind us"
(Richard Fuld of Lehman Brothers). The subprime market in the U.S. has reached its eighth
inning or maybe the "top of the ninth" (Morgan Stanley's John Mack).

On the other hand, John Thain of Merrill Lynch said, "I hope those who say we are at the end are
correct. I am somewhat more skeptical." Dan Fuss of Loomis Sayles, a highly experienced
bond manager with an excellent track record, said, "This is the most worrisome financial
situation I've seen in my working lifetime" [which approximates fifty years]. And George
Soros described this go-round as "much more serious than any other financial crisis since the end
of World War II."

People are talking about March 17, the day JPMorgan Chase rescued Bear Stearns, as the
bottom. Psychology was terrible in the weeks leading up to that event; things would have melted
down much further in the absence of a rescue; and psychology and markets picked up
substantially thereafter. Certainly that day was "a bottom," but I'm not so sure it was "the
bottom."

The Bear Stearns rescue dealt with the credit crunch, investor attitudes and the possibility
of a downward spiral among financial institutions. But it didn't mark the end of mortgage

defaults or economic weakness. Mortgages will continue to go unpaid, and the numbers may
accelerate if interest rates take adjustable-rate loan payments higher and if house prices continue
to fall. Further, nothing that was done in March will preclude economic slowdown, falling
corporate profits or defaults on debt. Finally, it doesn't seem to have done much for the
availability of credit. Several elements are likely to remain - or become - further depressants:

 Bank write-downs will continue to be reported. The majority of the banks' subprime-
 related losses may have surfaced as relate to the current level of house price depreciation
 and mortgage default. That doesn't mean these trends won't go further, and thus that the
 reservoir of unreported losses won't be refilled. The IMF has projected total mortgage-
 related losses of $1 trillion. Certainly the write-downs announced to date haven't approached
 that figure. And there's a broad consensus that most holders haven't been as forthcoming on
 this subject as the U.S. banks.

 Progress is being made toward breaking the logjam, but we're not done yet, and there
 continue to be additions to the backlog. As banks report large write-downs, I can't help but
 sense that the immediate reaction is, "I wonder how much more remains." Only when people
 stop thinking that way will real progress have been made toward easing the credit crunch.

 Similarly, sales of "hung" bridge loans are increasing, and clearly some investment banks are
 willing to take their medicine with regard to the extent to which loans bought in 2006 and
 2007 are unsalable at par. Recently we have seen sales at 90, often with financing provided
 by the sellers. But just as in the case of mortgage losses, it's quite possible that new
 obligations to lend will re-burden the financial institutions' balance sheets, as companies
 draw against the excess credit lines that were arranged at the time they changed hands in
 buyouts.

 The availability of credit is still a question mark, although things seem to be getting better.
 Despite the Fed's low rates and all central banks' massive injections of liquidity, inter-bank
 interest rates still incorporate significant yield spreads and volumes are limited. On April 28,
 the Financial Times quoted John Maynard Keynes:

 Whilst the weakening of credit is sufficient to bring about a collapse, its
 strengthening, though a necessary condition of recovery, is not a sufficient
 condition.

 In other words, the FT said, "just because the banks are not going bust does not mean
 that they can lend as before - nor would they if they could."

 Commercial real estate prices, like home prices, are coming off irrational highs achieved
 because of the oversupply of investment capital in the last few years. The coincidence of a
 broad real estate collapse with a significant recession has the potential to make this a
 painful episode. But few prominent commercial defaults and failed refinancings have been
 reported to date.

 The economic news, while not dire at the moment, isn't rosy. Consumer spending,
 inflation, employment and business investment all remain exposed to negative future
 developments. Default rates among highly levered companies have just begun to rise.

 Finally, the viability of derivatives such as credit default swaps has yet to be tested.
 That means either (a) they're not going to cause trouble, or (b) they're going to cause trouble
 and have yet to do so. This is another case where potential negatives have yet to be
 dispelled.

The markets have seen substantial gains since the time of Bear Stearns's rescue. They give me
the impression that people who refrained from trying to "catch a falling knife" may have
concluded that they waited too long, and thus they rushed to buy out of fear that they'd look bad
if they stayed uninvested. The FT of April 28 summed up in a way I thought was very much on
target:

 The awkward truth is that nobody knows for sure how severe an impact the credit
 crunch will prove to have on the global economy and on financial markets.

 On fundamental grounds a wealth-preserving investor might well feel justified in
 being cautious until the extent of the downside becomes clearer. The beauty
 contest approach [in which, rather than bet on who's the prettiest contestant,
 people bet on who most people will judge to be the prettiest contestant], however,
 suggests that many professional investors are taking the view that however
 bad their private fears, the majority of their counterparts are looking
 through the immediate fallout to a rosier future.

 Just as markets anticipate eight of the next five recessions, so too they can look
 forward to eight of the next five bull market recoveries. (Emphasis added)

I'm not saying the pessimists are right and the optimists are wrong, or that we truly face an
ongoing crisis. Rather, I think the possibility is there and several more shoes remain
capable of dropping. Importantly, while mortgage securities and leveraged loans have gone
through the wringer and arguably might be cheap, most other assets are as yet unscathed or have
rebounded. Stocks, in particular, do not seem to reflect the possibility that this economy's goose
is cooked, having declined only slightly from 2007's all-time highs.

 * * *

So you want to know, "Is it over?" Here's my bottom line:

 There's been a significant correction of the excesses of a year ago. Prices are down and
 risk premiums are up. Fear and risk aversion have been brought back into the equation;
 unbridled optimism is no longer the norm.

 A good part of the losses have been recognized that relate to the fundamental
 deterioration - and especially the mortgage defaults - to date.

 Psychology, which reached "end-of-the-world" levels in the days leading up to the
 rescue of Bear Stearns, is back from the brink and on the upswing. Although this could
 be a worrisome sign of inadequate caution, the risk that psychology will spur a massive
 downward spiral seems to be off the table for now.

 However, the foreseeable future is not without significant risks, many of which are real,
 not psychological (to the extent the two can be distinguished in economics). There could
 easily be further house price depreciation, causing more mortgage defaults and requiring
 additional write-downs. American consumers, buffeted by rising prices for energy and food
 and concerned about the future, could easily slow their spending and further weaken the
 economy. And we continue to believe that many high-priced, highly leveraged private equity
 deals will fail to survive an economic slowdown.

The outlook continues to call for prudence . . . although not as much or as urgently as a
year or two ago. Then, people were investing at low returns in the belief that nothing could
go wrong. Today, that optimism has been dispelled and prospective returns embody more
generous risk premiums.

However, only when a great deal of caution has been built into the markets - and hopefully
an excess of caution - is it time to turn highly aggressive. We're not there yet, but there's
reason to believe we're moving in that direction.


Memo: Doesn’t Make Sense.

Academics have their theories about market efficiency. Because market participants are
 well-informed and rational, they say, markets make correct decisions and smoothly
 assign the right price to each asset. It's for this reason that investors can't routinely find
 the mispricings they need in order to be able to beat the market.

 But investors - and most of the people living on this planet, for that matter - are far from
 the unemotional computing machines the academics assume them to be. They make
 faulty decisions, fall for scams and swing from one irrational position to another all the
 time. In fact, I marvel at how many things take place in the worlds of business,
 investments and politics that stem from irrationality and just don't make sense. It's
 my purpose here to write about a few.

 Letting the Market Call the Tune
 U

 In "Whodunit," I talked about Chuck Prince, the ex-CEO of Citigroup. Early in July of
 2007, he astutely observed, "When the music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will get
 complicated." However, he went on to add, "as long as the music is playing, you've
 got to get up and dance. We're still dancing." Because Citigroup danced as much as
 the other banks or more - and lost as much or more on subprime-related write-downs -
 Prince lost his job in November 2007.

 The portion of Prince's statement that I've highlighted seems emblematic of the attitudes
 that prevailed from early 2003 until the summer of 2007. People were doing risky things
 - often even though they recognized the attendant risk, as Prince seemed to do - because
 they saw no alternative if they wanted to remain competitive.

 Upon hearing of Prince's departure, my immediate reaction was to think (a) when a firm
 fares so badly, the CEO may deserve to lose his job, and (b) to avoid that fate, Prince just
 had to cause Citi to avoid the risky behavior he identified. If he had done the latter, Citi
 would be among the big winners today instead of the losers; it wouldn't have to
 recapitalize by selling equity at depressed prices; and instead it would have funds with
 which to take advantage of today's better market environment. So in saying that if the
 music was playing, Citi had to dance - and thus letting the market call the tune - Prince's
 leadership was flawed.

 Compulsory Short-Termism
 U

 But is it right to say Prince and Citi could have avoided trouble by refusing to go along?
 Let's do what some DVDs let you do nowadays: go back and consider an alternative
 ending. It's July 2005 instead of July 2007. Presciently, Chuck Prince says, "When the
 music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will get complicated. We're not going to get
 caught in that trap. As of today, we're adopting a conservative stance toward loans,
 mortgages, subprime, CDOs and SIVs. The others can dance all they want; we're sitting
 this one out."

 What would've happened? Rather than lose his job in late 2007, he probably would
 have lost it sooner. Why? Because from whenever he made that statement until July
 2007, Prince would have looked dumb. While other banks were gaining market share,
 Citi's share would have been shrinking. And while other banks were borrowing on the
 cheap to make mortgage-related investments at seemingly attractive spreads, Citi would
 have been on the sidelines, forgoing easy profits. Shareholders would have been yelling
 for Prince's scalp.

 The bottom line is one of my three favorite adages: Being too far ahead of your time is
 indistinguishable from being wrong.

 Of the two things I think are most wrong about American business, the worst is
 short-termism. (The other is the ability of executives to thrive while their companies do
 poorly.) Companies are rewarded for short-term success and penalized for short-
 term failure, whereas few people ask about the long term. The only thing that matters
 is "What have you done for me lately?" A lot of this emanates from stockholders.

 In a memo several years ago, I listed a few phrases that have sunk into obscurity over the
 course of my career. They included "fiduciary duty," "preservation of capital" and
 "dividend yield." Another is "long-term investor."

 Most investment managers are measured against a benchmark every quarter and expected
 to add value. Some clients have their fingers on the trigger, ready to axe a manager who
 underperforms for a year or two. For this reason, managers sit with their own fingers on
 the trigger, ready to dump a stock or bond whose short-term performance lags. And
 company CEOs whose securities are laggards are likewise on the hot-seat, with boards
 that rarely support executives who disappoint Wall Street.

 Too many people think of the long run as nothing but a series of short runs. The way to
 have the best five-year investment record, they think, is by sequentially assembling the
 twenty portfolios that will produce the best performance in each of the next twenty
 quarters. No one wants to invest in a company that may lag until long-term investments
 pay off down the road. They'll just sell its stock today, assuming they'll be able to buy it
 back later.

 Understanding this, companies face great pressure to emphasize short-term results. What
 might they do in response?

 Maximize revenues (perhaps by stuffing pipelines and offering discounts that
 accelerate future sales into the present).
 Minimize expenses in slow-to-bloom areas like research and development.
 Borrow to buy back stock, because debt capital is cheap and equity is expensive
 (despite the fact that equity provides safety and leverage amplifies risk).

 Do you want your companies doing these things? Probably not. But do the collective
 external pressures force companies in these directions? Absolutely. The things that
 maximize profits in the short run often serve to decrease profits and increase risk in
 the long run, but they can be mandatory these days.

 Investors are increasingly short-sighted, and none more so than some hedge funds, with
 their emphasis on year-by-year incentive fees. The average stock might deliver a return
 roughly in line with the growth in corporate profits, and the stocks of better companies
 should outperform in the long run, but hedge funds (and their investors) expect more.
 They're strongly motivated to hold a subset of stocks that will be the best near-term
 performers. One approach is to take positions and then pressure companies to "maximize
 shareholder value." With their focus on short-run performance and short-run
 compensation, many of the things they advocate - like spin-offs, stock buy-backs and
 oversized dividends - can be less than optimal for the long run. But that's not their
 concern.

 This kind of behavior exemplifies the debate over laissez-faire described in "The Aviary"
 in May. In the long run, it should be good for society to have capital in the hands of
 sophisticated, focused, bright managers who are free of guidelines and can go
 anywhere in pursuit of profit. In theory, it should be a positive that they're willing
 to bet against the herd, adopt unpopular positions and take on unresponsive
 managements. But in the short run, they can have a destabilizing effect, especially
 when several act in common. Maybe it just proves that free-market solutions - like just
 about everything else - have both positive and negative aspects.

 If Chuck Prince had taken Citigroup to the sidelines in 2005, it's highly likely that some
 hedge funds would have tried to force him out. And with Citi looking unduly
 conservative, the board might not have been in a position to resist. So being right isn't
 always enough when you run a public company. You have to be right in the short
 run. And in choosing a course of action, the one that's right for the short run
 generally will be preferred over the one that's right for the long run. None of this
 seems ideal.

 Unreliable Ratings
 U

 Probably the group that had the most power and yet covered itself with the least
 distinction over the last few years - and has been outed to the greatest extent - are the
 credit rating agencies. The rating agencies were accorded quasi-official status as the
 policemen of the credit markets, and they failed miserably.

 This is nothing new. I've always considered the rating agencies to be error-prone, and
 much of my career has consisted of taking advantage of their mistakes. They've often
 rated seemingly safe bonds too high and risky bonds too low. They've been slow to
 adjust ratings, but when finally they did change, they usually overshot. The bottom line
 is that managing a bond portfolio according to ratings would be somewhere between
 unavailing and disastrous. Profits are more likely to be found in gaming against the
 ratings.

 Nevertheless, when the government felt Wall Street had to be policed and debt
 investors protected, they turned to the agencies. Before doing so, I doubt anyone
 checked to see how accurate ratings have been. Now we know. Thousands of ratings
 of structured mortgage securities turned out to be too high and were adjusted downward,
 often many notches at a time. The CDO tranche that didn't have to be downgraded is the
 exception, not the rule. In other words, the ratings were grossly wrong.

 In my view, a triple-A rating shouldn't just imply a low probability of default, but a
 low probability of downgrading as well. The agencies may say they were blindsided
 by developments in residential defaults, but I think a triple-A rating should also
 imply a low probability of being blindsided. To follow on with the "black swan"
 thought process, something potentially subject to an "improbable disaster" shouldn't
 receive a triple-A rating. But clearly a lot did.

 A Model Destined to Fail
 U

 The bottom line's simple: you can't get dependable results from a faulty process.
 Most people realize now that the rating process was highly flawed.

 I've written before about the biggest weakness: the fact that rating agencies are hired and
 paid by the issuers whose debt they're rating. In "Now It's All Bad?" (September 2007),
 I compared this to a trial where the defendant picks and pays the judge. But I realize now
 that I overlooked an important element in the equation. It's actually a trial where the
 defendant gets to ask a number of prospective judges what verdict they'd reach
 before choosing one. Issuers can describe a proposed issue to multiple agencies, hear
 back as to what rating they're likely to assign, and then hire the one they want.

 Think about an agency's incentives under this arrangement: the fee goes to the one
 willing to supply the highest rating. Go along and your profits grow; stand on principle
 and you're left behind.

 When I came into this business in the 1960s, Moody's and Standard & Poor's made their
 money selling subscriptions to their publications. Thus their customers were investors,
 and they weren't beholden to the issuers. But when they began to derive most of their
 revenue from the issuers, the agencies understood who was buttering their bread.

 There's a further problem: only above-average judgment can make you a superior
 investor. The consensus view of the future is incorporated in market prices. Only
 someone more astute than the consensus can help you do better than average.

 Now let's turn to the rating process. Anyone can compute current financial ratios and
 see how a company's doing today. And the future looks the same to the average
 person as it does to the consensus. Thus, for a helpful assessment of a company's
 prospects, you need someone who can foresee possibilities and risks better than
 most. But if someone possesses above-average insight into bonds' prospects, will he
 assign credit ratings for a living, or will he get a job managing investments? Money isn't
 everything, but most people tend toward their highest and best use. I think it's fair to
 say the rating agencies don't attract bond gurus.

 Since the ratings business is highly competitive and profit margins are slim, agency
 analysts tend to be paid for high ratings and "responsiveness," as opposed to unique
 insight. Principled, conservative decisions aren't rewarded, as is now plain to see.

 Moody's disclosed in May that, because of a programming error, eleven European
 CPDOs (complex investment vehicles formed to write large amounts of credit insurance)
 had been incorrectly rated triple-A instead of double-A. Okay, everyone makes mistakes.
 But the plot thickens.

 According to The New York Times of July 2, the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell
 conducted an investigation for Moody's and found that the ratings hadn't been corrected
 even after the error came to light. Its report,

 . . . blamed employees in charge of monitoring and adjusting ratings for
 considering "factors inappropriate to the rating process" after the errors
 were discovered. . . . In a statement, Moody's said unidentified employees
 had violated a code that required analysts to consider only credit factors,
 not "the potential impact on Moody's, or an issuer, an investor or other
 market participant."

 It's not exactly clear what happened, and I don't think anyone's trying to make it
 particularly clear. It seems, however, that Moody's employees overlooked the ratings
 errors that came to light for "business reasons."

 According to an article on ratings in The Wall Street Journal of May 23, Moody's and
 Fitch,

 . . . acknowledged they have switched analysts assigned to rate bonds after
 receiving requests to do so from bond issuers or their bankers. Changes
 usually were made after a specific bond was rated, meaning the analyst
 wouldn't work on the bond issuer's next deal, according to current and
 former officials at the credit-rating firms. . . .

 At Moody's, at least one analyst in the group that rated collateralized debt
 obligations, or CDOs, was moved off a particular investment bank's deals
 within the past few years after bankers requested an analyst who raised
 fewer questions, according to people familiar with the matter.

 Another mortgage analyst at Moody's was moved to the firm's
 surveillance unit after a Moody's official agreed with an investment
 banker's opinion that the analyst was too fussy, a person familiar with the
 situation said. . . .

 "We're a service business," says John Bonfiglio, group managing
 director of structured finance at Fitch. [Emphasis added]

 Lastly, on July 9, The New York Times provided these tidbits from internal rating agency
 emails, which were part of an SEC report on its investigation of the agencies:

 "We do not have the resources to support what we are doing now."

 "I am trying to ascertain whether we can determine at this point if we will
 suffer any loss of business because of our decision and if so, how much?"

 "We are meeting with your group this week to discuss adjusting criteria
 for rating C.D.O.'s of real estate assets this week because of the ongoing
 threat of losing deals."

 It doesn't make sense for unregulated and sometimes unprofessional organizations,
 operating under the wrong incentives and performing tasks that are above their
 heads, to be appointed watchdogs of the capital markets. But that's what happened.

 U When It's Good to Be Bad

 Only in an Alice-in-Wonderland world can there be benefits in having a weak credit
 rating. But today's complex, rules-based accounting system makes it possible.

 On May 18, The Wall Street Journal published the story of Radian Group, a bond and
 mortgage insurer. Although its business was poor, an accounting gain enabled it to report
 a $195 million net profit for the first quarter, as opposed to the $215 million loss it would
 have reported otherwise. However, this was an unusual gain. It didn't arise because the
 value of Radian's assets went up, but rather because the value of its liabilities went down.

 Here's how, according to the Journal:

 One of the basic rules of accounting says that a reduction in the value of a
 liability leads to a gain that usually boosts profit. Under the new [mark-to-
 market accounting] rule, companies have to take into account the market's
 view of their own financial health when considering the market value of
 some liabilities. In this case, a company's poor health can lead to a
 reduction in the liability's value. . . .

 In other words, if you owe money and the probability you'll pay your debts declines,
 your financials strengthen. But shouldn't a declining ability to pay be associated with
 weakness, not strength? Before enacting rules like this one, someone should ask if
 they make sense. It doesn't seem anyone did.

 Similarly, mark-to-market accounting can - in the extreme - require a company to value
 its assets at the prices that would be realized if they all had to be sold today. And those
 prices are likely to decline as more assets are assumed to need dumping. Liquidation
 values are far different from intrinsic values or going-concern values. Do we really want
 to value assets on the assumption that they're all going to be sold immediately? What
 purpose does that serve?

 Blame the Speculators
 U

 The current debate over the role of speculators in oil pricing reminds me of Rep. Noah
 Sweat's classic answer when asked in 1952 what he thought about whiskey:

 If you mean whiskey, the devil's brew, the poison scourge, the bloody
 monster that defiles innocence, dethrones reason, destroys the home,
 creates misery and poverty, yea, literally takes the bread from the mouths
 of little children; if you mean that evil drink that topples Christian men
 and women from the pinnacles of righteous and gracious living into the
 bottomless pits of degradation, shame, despair, helplessness, and
 hopelessness, then, my friend, I am opposed to it with every fiber of my
 being.

 However, if by whiskey you mean the oil of conversation, the philosophic
 wine, the elixir of life, the ale that is consumed when good fellows get
 together, that puts a song in their hearts and the warm glow of contentment
 in their eyes; if you mean Christmas cheer, the stimulating sip that puts a
 little spring in the step of an elderly gentleman on a frosty morning; if you
 mean that drink that enables man to magnify his joy, and to forget life's
 great tragedies and heartbreaks and sorrow; if you mean that drink the sale
 of which pours into our treasuries untold millions of dollars each year, that
 provides tender care for our little crippled children, our blind, our deaf,

 our dumb, our pitifully aged and infirm, to build the finest highways,
 hospitals, universities, and community colleges in this nation, then my
 friend, I am absolutely, unequivocally in favor of it.

 This is my position, and as always, I refuse to be compromised on matters
 of principle.

 I guess you could say Rep. Sweat found the merits of whiskey to be in the eye of the
 beholder. So, it seems, is the role of "speculators" in the escalation of oil prices.

 Politicians don't seem eager to tell constituents the truth about oil:

 We use too much of it (perhaps because it's cheaper in the U.S. than elsewhere).
 Our cars are less efficient than they should be.
 A good bit of this year's increase in the dollar price of oil may be attributable to the
 fact that a dollar now buys considerably less goods (or other currencies) than it did in
 December.
 Oh yeah: and Washington completely dropped the ball in areas like fuel efficiency
 standards.

 So it shouldn't come as a surprise that some politicians are blaming the price rise on other
 people: speculators. But what is a speculator? That'll bring an answer like Rep. Sweat's.
 Ask a lay person, and the answer will be a shiftless gambler who takes unwise chances in
 pursuit of unjustified profits.

 In the commodities market, a distinction is made between "commercial" and "non-
 commercial" traders. A commercial trader may buy oil, for example, in the course of its
 main business (like an airline, utility or oil refiner) and thus have a reason to hedge
 against price rises. Or it may be an oil producer that wants to protect against falling
 prices by selling its future production at the current price. People making value
 judgments deem these to be "legitimate" reasons.

 Speculators, on the other hand, are non-commercial traders - anyone without direct
 reliance on oil in its business. The current furor implies they don't have valid reasons for
 buying oil.

 But what about the long-term investor who wants to own natural resources as part
 of a balanced portfolio? Or the individual seeking protection against inflation? Or
 the sovereign nation that wants to put part of its reserves into something other than
 depreciation-prone dollars? These motives aren't "illegitimate," and they don't
 deserve to be disparaged.

 In particular, some have suggested that pension funds should be barred from trading in
 oil. This has to have more to do with scapegoating and short-term perception than it does
 with preventing improper behavior or solving our nation's energy problem.

 Prices - for everything - are set by the interaction of supply and demand, and short-term
 swings in these things can swamp long-term fundamentals. Certainly, incremental
 demand from the kinds of buyers described above may have lifted the recent price of oil
 above what it otherwise would have been. But upward pressure doubtless came as well
 from (1) increased consumption (especially in developing countries like China and India),
 (2) rising international tensions, and (3) the simple fact that, because a dollar now buys
 less than it used to, it's logical for sellers to demand more of them per barrel. How
 much of the blame rightly falls on the speculators?

 Thirty billion barrels of oil are consumed each year worldwide, worth over $4 trillion at
 today's prices. Can the buying of oil by investors - even speculators - really be
 responsible for much of this year's $1 trillion increase in the total cost of those thirty
 billion barrels? I don't think that explanation makes much sense.

 When major problems arise in the economy or markets, politicians and the media
 often find it attractive to point fingers at alleged evil doers. That's a lot easier than
 admitting that regulation fell short, or that we face intractable problems. We're sure
 to see criticism and even prosecutions following the current economic episode. But any
 misdeeds are likely to be symptomatic of a lax environment, not causes of the problem,
 and punishing them is unlikely to be an effective part of the solution.

 Eliminating the Fear of Loss
 U

 A couple of weeks ago, I had a great talk with Tom Petruno, an insightful business
 reporter for the Los Angeles Times. Calling on our shared experience as Californians, he
 presented what I consider a very apt analogy. It went like this:

 We've all heard about the connection between the Fed's actions and moral hazard.
 There've been many incidents and scares over the last couple of decades: Black Monday,
 the meltdown of Long-Term Capital Management, Y2K, the bursting of the tech bubble,
 9/11, and a recession here and there. Each time, the Fed rushed in with interest rate cuts
 and increases in liquidity designed to prevent or offset their depressing effects. A few
 times, it was said, these actions averted a collapse of the world financial system.

 But the cost was moral hazard: a growing expectation that the Fed would bail out
 imprudent risk takers. By behaving in ways that cause people to think they'll always
 come to the rescue, authorities encourage risky behavior. And we all share the cost of
 rescuing the risk takers, whether we participated or not. In this way, the risk taking
 encouraged by the Fed's policy of protecting participants caused the risks to grow ever-
 higher. The result is a housing bubble and full-scale credit crunch that together have cost
 millions of people money and perhaps their homes, pushed financial institutions to the
 brink, and caused the government to expend a lot of its problem-solving resources.

 Tom asked if I didn't see a parallel between the management of our financial system and
 the policy toward forest fires. The western states experience forest fires all the time, for

 any number or reasons: lightning, stray cigarettes, campfires that get out of control, even
 arson. While undesirable, these frequent fires have a good side: they get rid of the
 relatively small amount of dry brush created each year during our dry season.

 But in recent years, the authorities promptly extinguished these fires to make sure they
 wouldn't get out of control. As a result, brush was permitted to accumulate from year to
 year. And this May, when a series of freak lightning storms started 2,000 fires, the built-
 up brush turned some of them into major conflagrations at a time when fire-fighting
 resources were stretched thin.

 This past Sunday, the 27th, the Los Angeles Times kicked off a major series on forest
 fires. Here's part of what it said:

 The government's long campaign to tame wildfires has, perversely, made
 the problem worse. . . . By stamping out most wildland blazes as quickly
 as possible, the Forest Service has stymied nature's housekeeping - the
 frequent, well-behaved fires that once cleaned up the pine forests of the
 Sierra Nevada and the Southwest. Now, woodlands are tangled with thick
 growth and dead branches. When fires break out, they often explode.

 Sound familiar? Clearly, the analogy between financial crises and forest fires is solid.
 And I told Tom that just as the Fed's growing tendency to solve every problem led people
 to take greater risks, the policy of fighting fires early also created moral hazard by
 encouraging people to build homes further into the forest. It fell to the community to
 keep those unwisely built structures safe, just as the government now feels it has to
 rescue subprime borrowers and financial institutions.

 Capitalism can produce great results, but participants have to be allowed to both win and
 lose. If they aren't, they come to believe the only possible outcomes are winning or, at
 worst, breaking even. Good business decisions can be made only if the hope for gain
 is balanced by the fear of loss. The latter must not be eliminated. The system must
 be allowed to work. Of course, this has to be balanced against the desire to prevent
 catastrophes, necessitating some very difficult choices.

 Counting on a "V"
 U

 Finally, I want to provide a word of caution regarding expectations for recovery. I hear
 predictions that things will come back next year. Earlier this month, for instance, an
 elevator news display cited a forecast that home prices will rise 4% in 2009, almost
 offsetting 2008's decline.

 People have become conditioned to expect V-shaped declines and recoveries. We saw
 quick downs and ups in the markets or the economy in 1987, 1990, 1994, 1998 and 2002.
 But it doesn't have to be that way. Those of us who were in this business in the 1970s
 know different.

 The '70s saw a 37% decline in the S&P 500 in 1973-74; huge losses in the "nifty-fifty"
 growth stocks; the Arab oil embargo in 1973; inflation in the high teens; short-term
 interest rates in the 20s; and an infamous Business Week cover story, "The Death of
 Equities." Stagflation ruled, and there seemed to be no way out of the wage-price spiral.
 People wore buttons promoting President Ford's WIN program ("Whip Inflation Now"),
 but neither the buttons nor the program did any good. New York stockbrokers were
 driving cabs, and it was extremely difficult to find employment in the investment
 industry. That means that in order to be part of the investment industry in the '70s, you
 pretty much had to have your job by 1969. And that in turn means you had to be at least
 21 by 1969 . . . and sixty or older today. There aren't many of us still working.

 I can tell you, no one was talking about a "V" in the 1970s. We experienced financial
 malaise lasting almost a decade. The best we felt we could hope for was a "saucer-
 shaped" recovery, a far different story.

 As I said in "The Tide Goes Out" in March, economies aren't hard-wired, and no one
 knows in advance how things will go. Further, some of the ingredients this time never
 have been seen before. When taken together, I see problems that may not go away any
 time soon and the possibility of a sluggish period lasting more than months or quarters.

 First, let's consider financial institutions and the housing market. In recent years, as
 everyone knows, the former combined with the latter to create a bubble based on the
 combination of leverage, innovative structuring and heedless buying. Institutions and
 housing have been gravely hurt, and they're likely to bring harm to additional sectors of
 the economy. For their downward spiral to be arrested, I see four things that have to
 happen:

 Home prices have to stop going down.
 Home mortgages have to be made available.
 Financial institutions have to stop experiencing incremental write-offs.
 Financial institutions have to be able to raise additional capital with which to rebuild
 their balance sheets.

 The problem I see is that each of these four things is dependent on the occurrence of
 another - a classic chicken-or-the-egg problem. Write-offs won't stop until home
 prices stop going down. Prices won't stop going down until mortgages become available.
 Mortgages won't become available until lenders can raise capital. And capital won't be
 freely available until write-offs stop coming. Which will happen first, facilitating the
 others? What will cause it to happen? When?

 These things will happen, of course. Maybe for reasons we can't foresee. Maybe for no
 apparent reason. And maybe just because things got so bad they couldn't get any worse.
 I go through this only to show why I don't see an easy or quick solution. But then I'm
 rarely an unbridled optimist.

 Second, consumer spending is a principal lynchpin of the economy, and there's no reason
 to think the near-term outlook here is positive:

 Employment, earnings, the wealth effect and consumer psychology in general are all
 likely to be negative, and thus to act as depressants on the economy.
 Higher energy costs and higher mortgage payments (driven up as inflation worries lift
 interest rates) both have the potential to hamper consumer spending.
 Consumers aren't likely to be able to borrow as easily as in the past. Credit cards
 may not be available as freely. Borrowing on home equity could be nearly
 impossible and, anyway, there isn't as much equity to borrow against.
 The American consumer hasn't saved in years and thus has very little in the bank to
 spend.
 The consumer may realize that savings are essential - at last. If so, in order to save,
 he'll have to spend less than he makes - at last. This, too, will depress spending.

 The record over the last decade - and even the first half of 2008 - shows the American
 consumer to be incredibly resilient and unwilling to break the spending habit. Thus it
 isn't impossible that spending will stay strong . . . just illogical.

 Basically, I think this economy has to hunker down. Financial institutions have to
 strengthen their balance sheets. Consumers should do so as well. There should be less
 risk tolerance and financial innovation. Regulation is destined to increase, and in
 exchange for its support of financial institutions, the Federal government is likely to
 demand that they carry less leverage and take less risk. Thus financing could be scarce.

 But positives do exist. Dollar-denominated exports look very cheap to the rest of the
 world and will bolster the U.S. economy. And the Fed will do everything possible to
 help (but it can reduce rates only so far and has to remain vigilant regarding inflation).

 The usual tug-of-war is taking place between the optimists and the pessimists. On
 July 18, the Financial Times quoted Deutsche Bank chief executive, Josef Ackermann, as
 saying, "We are seeing the beginning of the end of the crisis." But the very next day, The
 New York Times quoted Alan Blinder (ex-vice chairman of the Fed board of governors):
 "The financial system looks substantially worse now than it did a month ago."

 On balance, I continue to think the odds favor economic sluggishness for a not-
 insubstantial period of time. Given today's general dearth of beaten-down assets
 outside of residential real estate and financial institutions, investing gradually
 probably won't cause you to miss great opportunities. But it will keep you out of
 trouble and ensure that you have capital with which to take advantage of any
 bargains ahead. In my book, going slow here makes the most sense.


Memo: What Worries Me.

Especially in times like these, people often ask what keeps me up at night. Well I'll tell
 you a few things it's not: that Oaktree will suddenly depart from its investment
 philosophy; that some of our accounts will trail their benchmark for a year; or that the
 markets will be so weak that we can't earn returns (or so strong that there aren't any
 bargains). And it's certainly not that I'll meet up with that bus I hear so much about.

 My real worries concern the big picture and the long term. Most of them have to do
 with America's future and the world in which my children and grandchildren will
 live. In this regard, I think there's a lot to worry about. I'm not going to spend this
 memo discussing things as mundane as investment cycles, or as cosmic as environmental
 deterioration, global warming or terrorism. There's enough to talk about in terms of
 largely economic issues without going into areas like those. And having covered them
 below, I promise to go back to my day job thinking about investments.

 I hope this memo will be well received. I fear some may think it's un-American or
 unpatriotic, but I assure you I'm neither. It'll certainly seem negative and dreary; I admit
 up front that I see the problems more clearly than the solutions. But I hope this memo
 will raise some questions in readers' minds and contribute to constructive debate.

 Further, I hope it'll be of interest to Oaktree's clients outside the U.S. While you may not
 be exposed to these issues to the degree we are at home, (a) you may want to know what I
 think the U.S. is up against, and (b) at bottom, we're all in this together - all nations are
 intertwined. And who knows: you might be looking for farsighted help with your
 countries' long-term problems, just like I am.

 The American Century

 The truth is that it's great to live in America. Ours isn't the only wonderful country, or
 the only good place to live, but we've benefited from:

 230 years of stable democratic government;
 140 years without civil war;
 the generally peaceful co-existence of a highly heterogeneous population;
 very high levels of personal freedom and opportunity;
 a highly functioning free-market economy;
 great educational institutions;
 vast land mass and natural resources; and
 a highly productive, inventive and entrepreneurial citizenry.

 No one alive today has experienced anything other than American preeminence. In fact,
 the twentieth century has been called "The American Century." But there's no reason
 why the twenty-first century necessarily will be another.

 National preeminence - like most other things - is cyclical, not permanent. Given
 time, leading nations overextend themselves, lose their energy or squander their
 advantages. They get fat and happy, and they relax. Underdogs try harder and rise from
 a lower base. Perhaps they study the leaders and learn how to emulate them. And
 perhaps they begin to make better use of untapped resources and underutilized labor
 forces. They may even benefit as the leaders share the wealth (such as the U.S. did
 through the Marshall Plan after World War II). Regardless of the reasons, just as the U.S.
 supplanted colonial powers like England, France, Spain and Portugal that had held sway
 earlier, countries like China, India, Russia and Brazil now seem likely to grow faster than
 the U.S. in the twenty-first century, narrow the gap and enjoy their time in the sun.

 In Praise of the Melting Pot

 One of the greatest sources of America's growth and preeminence has been the bounty of
 immigration. With the exception of the Native American Indians, there was no one here
 500 years ago. We're a country of immigrants. We've benefited as waves of foreigners
 moved to the U.S. to escape mistreatment or seek opportunity. I never forget that my
 grandparents weren't born here, and how far I've been able to progress nonetheless.

 When I was a kid in the 1950s, a joke asked why we were ahead of the Russians in
 technology. The answer: our German scientists were better than theirs. This country
 attracted people from all over the world, gave them unprecedented opportunity, and
 permitted the most talented to rise to the top. What a great recipe for success.

 But today the outlook isn't the same:

 The stick isn't as strong as it used to be: economies and living conditions in other
 countries have gotten better and continue to do so.
 The carrot isn't as strong, either: we're no longer the only country offering
 opportunity.
 The barriers to entry threaten to rise, as some Americans consider immigration one of
 our biggest problems. And 9/11 has made visas, including those for students, much
 harder to obtain.

 My involvement as a university trustee has exposed me to a developing trend. It used to
 be that foreign students were eager to come to the U.S. to gain a higher education and
 then stay to pursue their fortunes. They still want to come for the education, but today
 many want to return to participate in economic booms in their native countries. This
 makes me wonder whether there'll come a day when the opportunity for a first-class U.S.
 education isn't as much of a draw, because other countries will have developed

 comparable educational institutions of their own. That day seems far off - institutions
 like these don't arise in an instant - but it isn't an impossibility.

 Many newcomers to the U.S. have found success in engineering, where their technical
 skills could be put to good use and language skills may have been less critical. Now,
 however, we hear from Silicon Valley that engineers are harder to attract and retain
 because of the trends described above. I'm told that in certain fields (like aerospace),
 U.S. engineers are declining in number and their average age is rising.

 America's preeminence depends in part on continuing to attract the world's best
 and brightest, but the outlook for doing so is not all it was in the past.

 Standard of Living

 In many ways, including materially, Americans have enjoyed a wonderful standard of
 living over the last hundred years. Considering creature comforts such as housing, food,
 sanitation, healthcare, leisure and luxuries, ours may have been the highest standard of
 living in the world. That raises three questions:

 1. Why should we continue to enjoy the highest standard of living?
 2. Why should it continue to improve?
 3. And why should the rate of improvement outpace that of the rest of the world?

 We often see poll results showing that increasing numbers of Americans doubt their
 children will live better than they do. We'd like them to, but why should they? Other
 than technological improvements which doubtless will continue to make life better for
 everyone, why should our standard of living improve monotonically? And improve
 relative to the rest of the world? Certainly the advantage in this regard can shift to other
 countries, just as it shifted to us in the past.

 The World's Highest Earners

 One of the reasons for our high standard of living is the fact that Americans have been
 paid more for doing a given job than everyone else. This was fine as long as (a) the U.S.
 enjoyed the benefits listed on page one, and (b) significant barriers protected the status
 quo. But why should this go on? How can it go on?

 Think about two cities. City A has more jobs than people, and city B has more people
 than jobs. Initially, people in city A - where labor is relatively scarce - will be paid more
 for doing a given job than people in city B. The key to their continuing to earn more is
 the existence of barriers that prevent people from moving to city A. Otherwise,
 people will move from city B to city A until the ratio of people to jobs is the same in both
 cities and so are the wages. Among other things, geographic inequalities are
 dependent on the immobility of resources.

 For much of the last century, barriers kept our pay high. Other countries' output wasn't
 as good as ours. Some lacked investment capital, and some were decimated by war from
 time to time. Perhaps they didn't possess our ability to generate technological
 advancements or our managerial skills. High transportation costs, tariffs, prejudices
 (when I was a kid, "Japanese transistor radio" was synonymous with "low quality") or
 legal restrictions (e.g., keeping foreign airlines from competing freely in our markets)
 may have protected American wages. International trade wasn't what it is today. But all
 of these things can change over time, and it's hard to see how the earnings supremacy of
 U.S. workers will be sustainable.

 Among other things, our legacy airlines became weighted down with high-cost labor
 contracts and all have gone through bankruptcy to shed them. Likewise, high healthcare
 costs added to the cost of every car built in the U.S. to an extent that hurt our
 competitiveness. Thus the U.S. auto industry lost domestic market share, sent production
 overseas, and consists of three companies of uncertain creditworthiness.

 Protectionism favors the erection of trade barriers, but it's usually resisted based on the
 totality of its effects. In international trade, just as in local markets, the only real
 way to maintain and grow market share - and thus to protect earnings power - is to
 offer the best combination of price and value. Regulations and tariffs won't make
 us competitive in the long run, and without offering a superior bargain, the
 supremacy of our standard of living will not be preserved in a world of lower
 barriers.

 What Do You Make?

 We're all familiar with the pattern: as communications improve and barriers and
 transportation costs come down, jobs move from the U.S. to China, India or some other
 low-cost country, spurred by producers' desire to increase profits or just remain
 competitive. There's even a word for it: outsourcing. As a result, with each passing year,
 the U.S. manufactures less of its needs and the world's.

 I looked at myself on the way to work this morning. Everything I had on was made
 outside the U.S.: suit, shirt, tie, shoes, eyeglasses, even underwear. My car, TV and
 stereo are imports. So's my computer. I bought some of these things from American
 companies, but they were made elsewhere. (I don't think I'm unpatriotic in buying these
 things: I'm just pursuing high-quality goods at the best ratio of value to price.)

 There's no way around it: we don't make much anymore. What does that mean? I
 have to admit I don't know. I'm not enough of an economist to have the answer. But I
 wonder a lot about how an economy can function if it doesn't make much.

 Joe does Ed's legal work, and Ed keeps Joe's books. Sarah cuts Bob's hair, and Bob
 cooks in the restaurant where Sarah eats. Rich drives the bus that takes Sue to the bank,

 and Sue handles Rich's loan application. And, of course, someone like me manages
 investments for all of them. But how does an economy function if nobody actually
 makes anything - and if we have to buy all of our stuff from other countries? I'm
 exaggerating for impact, but you get my meaning. We make less and less each year -
 and we consume more.

 Can an economy be successful if it consists of nothing but service providers,
 government workers and retailers? (Think about the unions you hear the most about in
 connection with the upcoming presidential election: the Service Employees International
 and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees - no longer the
 Teamsters and Auto Workers.) Can a nation prosper without producing goods? I just
 don't know the answer.

 And then there's the question of where we'll get our stuff from. Of course, we'll buy it
 from other countries. But that leads to other questions: To what extent will rising
 inflation in cheap-labor countries raise the cost of the imports on which we depend
 so thoroughly? What will we sell to the rest of the world in order to get currency
 with which to buy their stuff? And for how long will they buy it from us?

 Certainly American goods have become less price-competitive, and other countries have
 learned to produce for themselves. Think about what we export. Movies? Computer
 software? Other countries are increasingly making their own. Financial products? Now
 there's an area where we're still exporting. But given the results with subprime and
 CDOs, might we have damaged that franchise? (Here's a piece of trivia for you: what's
 our biggest export by volume? This trick question hinges on the inclusion of the words
 "by volume," and the answer is waste paper for recycling. Certainly this doesn't indicate
 a manufacturing advantage on our part, or value we're adding to the global economy.)

 Increasingly, we're reduced to designing products, styles, software and media content for
 production elsewhere. What's the long-term outlook in that regard? How long will
 others need us in that role? It's been said we're becoming a nation of burger flippers. An
 exaggeration, certainly, but how much of one? And what are the ramifications? One last
 thing (and don't tell my friends I said this): What does it mean when investment
 bankers and money managers - who add relatively little to economic output - are
 among a society's highest paid members?

 Earning and Spending

 When I meet with people in other countries, here's how I describe the typical American
 (again, exaggerating for effect): $1,000 in the bank and $10,000 owed on the credit card;
 makes $20,000 a year after taxes and spends $22,000. That may not be strictly accurate,
 and I haven't checked my facts. But I think it presents the general picture.

 Many people have little if anything saved up - we often read about people being
 bankrupted by a bout of sick leave - and the savings rate has fallen to roughly zero.

 People probably think of their pension plans, IRAs and home ownership as eliminating
 the need for savings. But certainly recent events have shown the holes in that approach.

 U.S. consumers increase their debt continually, seemingly without ever thinking about
 paying off the balance or of how they might accomplish that (short of winning the
 lottery). It doesn't seem to trouble people when they spend more than they earn, whether
 through the use of credit cards or by taking out loans, including borrowing and spending
 the equity in their homes. In all of these regards, the American consumer doesn't seem to
 give any thought to how this movie will end (I last raised this in "Hindsight First, Please"
 in October 2005). It's just a matter of people wanting to consume more than their
 income supports. Saying "I want it, but I can't afford it" seems hopelessly old-
 fashioned in the America of today.

 Who Else?

 I wish only consumers acted this way. Go back three paragraphs, though, and ask
 whether my description of the typical American doesn't also relate equally to our
 government: constant deficit spending and continually increasing debt.

 Our fiscal deficit and national debt aren't enormous relative to other developed nations
 and to our GDP. And I don't make a value judgment that it's wrong to run deficits from
 time to time. The traditional view of fiscal policy is that deficit spending should be used
 counter-cyclically, expanding it in weak times to stimulate the economy, and contracting
 it (perhaps paying down debt) to throw on some cold water when the economy becomes
 heated. But I wonder whether constant deficits, and a national debt that always
 grows faster than GDP, can be right in the long run.

 Right now, the U.S. Treasury has to borrow to cover our fiscal deficit. As the debt
 grows, the interest bill rises - and in connection with the rescue of Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac, Congress just approved an increase in the national debt ceiling from $9.8
 trillion to $10.6 trillion. Pretty soon, we may have to borrow just to pay the interest.

 Might we ever pay off our debt? How? More importantly, what are its ramifications?
 Dependence on foreign lenders puts us in quite a box:

 To attract foreign capital, it's better to pay high interest rates. But the need to keep
 them high could complicate the job of stimulating our economy when it slows.
 The fact that our negative balance of payments pumps excess dollars into circulation
 abroad can put downward pressure on the value of the dollar.
 Weakness in the dollar can make foreigners reluctant to hold reserves in dollars, and
 to buy Treasury debt that will be repaid later in dollars that buy fewer goods. What
 happens when we pump out so many dollars - and they depreciate so much - that
 foreigners refuse to accept our promises of payment? How then will we fund our
 deficits?

 This debate has gone on for years. Our politicians want to borrow so they can
 continue to spend more than comes in via taxes. But shouldn't we ask what amount
 of debt is right to leave for future generations? As the federal deficit grows relative to
 GDP, so will the national debt, and future generations will be saddled with an increased
 interest burden (even if there's never a need to repay).

 Again, I'm not enough of an economist to know the answers. (And even economists
 disagree about the significance of national deficits and debt.) But I wonder whether it's
 prudent for a country to spend more than it makes in both good times and bad.

 Affording Retirement

 In college macroeconomics, I learned that Social Security was one of the important
 components of the "safety net" preventing a recurrence of the Depression. With help
 from their personal savings and the private pension system, Americans would be able to
 afford retirement, rather than end up on the streets in their old age.

 Now I worry about the outlook for my fellow Americans in this regard. Many have little
 saved, as I mentioned above. According to Tom Friedman, writing in The New York
 Times on June 29, "[Since 2000,] our national savings have gone from 6 percent of gross
 domestic product to 1 percent . . ."

 The defined benefit pension system is shrinking, especially with regard to new
 enrollments. Defined contribution plans and IRAs replace it somewhat, but their
 voluntary nature leaves big holes in the safety net. (I admire the wisdom of mandatory
 pension plan participation in countries like Australia, Denmark and the Netherlands;
 people can find it hard to save rather than spend, so it's a good idea to give them
 "encouragement" in that regard.)

 Finally, the impending shortages in the Social Security System have been very well
 documented, and the best the optimists can say is "it won't be a problem anytime soon."
 Add in more years spent in retirement by people living longer and a declining ratio of
 workers paying into Social Security to retirees drawing out, and the outlook is very
 problematic.

 Will large numbers of Americans be unable to afford retirement? Will they experience
 deprivation? Will they become a burden on the community and the nation? I see no easy
 or pleasant answers to these questions.

 The Healthcare Dilemma

 Healthcare is another example of a problem crying out for a solution, but the stumbling
 blocks are many.

 Healthcare is expensive, and the cost rises all the time, in part because costly new
 medicines and procedures are developed.
 Americans are living far longer, so there are more years in which sickness is high and
 costs are elevated. In the modern era, few people (understandably) are content to slip
 into decline and death without a fight.
 Remarkably in our advanced society, nutrition and health awareness seem to be going
 in the wrong direction, along with the level of exercise for large portions of the
 population. Obesity has become an epidemic, bringing with it serious health
 problems.
 Patients want the best care, and doctors want to provide it. How can society respond
 to this demand when many patients can't afford the care, or even a reasonable co-
 payment? I once read a Wall Street Journal op-ed piece on healthcare with a title
 something like, "If You're Paying, I'll Have Steak." That's the inevitable outcome
 when third parties foot much of the bill.
 It's hard to effect triage: who'll tell an 80- or 90-year-old that he shouldn't get a joint
 replacement or costly drug therapy? If a hospital or the insurance company wants to
 say "no," all hell breaks loose.
 The economics of medical care have become somewhat anti-social. Doctors face
 declining pay and status, and systems designed to control healthcare costs stick
 healthcare professionals with very distasteful administrative burdens.
 Amazingly for such a rich nation, statistics rank American healthcare low in the
 developed world. (I'd guess, however, that this is the result of averaging a lot of
 people enjoying very good treatment with the less fortunate who fare much worse
 than their counterparts in countries with broader government-sponsored programs.)
 One answer is some form of socialized or universal healthcare, but by nature such a
 system is likely to be costly, bureaucratic and/or ineffective. Other countries have
 national health systems, but it's hard to get appointments, and I imagine everyone
 gets care that's okay but not great.
 If there's a collective scheme, can the healthiest and wealthiest be forced to
 participate? If not, how will it function if they opt out of it, pulling away healthcare
 resources for "concierge" medical service and draining low-burden members from the
 pool of insureds?

 Taken together, these points suggest possible compromises but no ideal answer. The
 bottom line is that we can't afford to give the best possible medical care to every
 citizen. No country can, and anyone who says we can is probably running for office.
 We can either (a) give moderate care to everyone or (b) retain a system under which the
 results are all over the map and the less fortunate get very little. Neither of those is
 perfect, but I think they're the choices.

 Growing Inequality

 The capitalist system produces gains because of a Darwinian process in which
 participants are spurred on by economic incentives and the most successful enjoy great
 rewards. The system runs on the ability of those who are more talented and/or work

 harder to do better than others. Inevitably the better life also goes to some who are
 undeserving and just lucky or born into wealth; that's undesirable but inescapable. But
 it's not good if the margin by which some do better than others is too big.

 I think it was in the '70s that I came across a great explanation for America's economic
 success:

 When the English factory worker sees the boss drive out in his Rolls
 Royce, he says, "I'd like to put a bomb under that car." But when the
 American worker sees the boss drive out in his Cadillac, he says, "I'm
 going to own a car like that some day."

 That's one of those little stories containing a great deal of truth. Economic motivation
 and a feeling of opportunity are great positive forces, while class resentment is
 equally negative. We want America to remain a meritocracy where all citizens
 believe in their ability to get ahead. Too much of a disparity could eat into the belief in
 our system.

 Pay at the top has exploded relative to all else. At Citibank in the mid-1980s if my
 memory's correct, CEO Walter Wriston, the world's top banker, made about $250,000 a
 year. Twenty-five years later, the CEO of a money-center bank or large corporation
 makes 50 to 100 times that . . . and 400 times in a year when options pay off big. What
 other segment of our workforce has done as well? We're in a period of general income
 stagnation, when lots of Americans haven't made strides like the executive class . . . or
 any strides at all.

 I don't expect executives to indulge in self-restraint, since people rarely do things against
 their own short-term interests. But I'd like to see boards take the position that huge
 incomes should come only with great benefits for the companies' owners. And that a
 single great year might not merit enormous compensation that year. Entrepreneurial
 rewards can be appropriate for successful executives, but they should come only for long-
 term success and should be at risk in the event of failure.

 I believe thoroughly in the free market system, and that the worst thing imaginable would
 be government regulation of salaries or incomes. But I also worry about the
 consequences when the benefits to the fortunate few are perceived by everyone else to be
 unfairly disproportionate and unrelated to achievement.

 In the past, in addition to the fact that incomes weren't so enormous at the top, the
 income gap was narrowed by the fact that people could do pretty well at the bottom.
 Millions of menial and blue-collar jobs were created as our economy expanded.
 Even without much education, people could enjoy the good things in life, including cars,
 TVs and vacations, along with good public school educations for their kids and the
 possibility that most of those kids would have better jobs than their parents. Which of
 those elements is equally true today?

 In the "Information Age," the lack of a college degree or computer literacy is a much
 greater handicap than it used to be. With non-information jobs increasingly moving
 overseas, what jobs will our less-educated citizens occupy? You might say education
 holds the answer, but (a) our public education system is in decline, and (b) how,
 especially given these jobs' greater productivity, can there be enough tech-based jobs to
 keep our entire population gainfully employed?

 The Energy Problem

 When I began to drive in 1964, oil was $4 a barrel and gasoline was 29 cents a gallon.
 Then, in 1973, OPEC put an embargo on oil exports. We saw lines around the block at
 gas stations, and we were permitted to fill up just every other day. The price of oil
 jumped to $35 by 1980 or so, and then it subsided. It spent the period from 1986 to 2001
 between $10 and $30 before going on to hit $92 in 2007 and $148 earlier this year.

 The bottom line, however, is that from about 1880 until a few years ago, we were in an
 environment of cheap energy. For over a hundred years, the price of oil didn't rise,
 meaning it got dramatically cheaper in inflation-adjusted terms. This encouraged
 exactly the behavior one would expect: rapidly growing oil consumption, lagging
 increases in supply, little attention to the development of alternative energy sources,
 insufficient investment in mass transit, and weak efforts at conservation.

 We're guilty of profligate energy consumption. Americans use SUVs or pickups
 capable of carrying eight people or huge payloads to do their grocery shopping. And they
 feel free to live 50 to 75 miles from work and to drive there alone in their behemoths.
 We just haven't had incentives to use energy thoughtfully.

 Maybe you have your favorite example of energy waste; mine is supermarkets' removal
 of doors from their freezer displays. Can you imagine what future archaeologists will say
 about the decision to cool a whole store just to make it easier to buy some frozen food?

 It's not a coincidence that with oil much more expensive, Europe uses far less energy per
 unit of GDP than we do. Because of high taxes, gasoline traditionally has cost 2 to 4
 times as much in Europe as it has in the U.S. Today it's about $9 per gallon, and yet I
 don't hear Europeans complain much. That's because they drive smaller, more fuel-
 efficient cars, live closer to their jobs, and make major use of mass transit. They even
 ride bicycles to work.

 The most important element in responding to the energy problem is expensive oil.
 Low prices have encouraged high demand and discouraged additions to supply.
 The opposite will be the case only if prices are high. Politicians' attempts to play to
 the crowd by artificially reducing the price of oil - through releases from the
 government's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, banning "speculation" or providing a holiday
 from gas taxes, as was suggested in the spring by would-be presidential candidates from
 both parties - will do nothing but add to demand and depress supply.

 In the future, pre-industrial societies will become industrialized, and millions of
 newcomers to the middle class worldwide will want cars. We need an energy policy
 that is constructive for the long run, encouraging us to use less oil and find more.
 Everyone's squawking about gas prices and looking for culprits. But as long as gasoline
 costs much less than Snapple or Evian water, resources will be misallocated and we
 won't see real progress.

 We also would benefit from regulations that mandate fuel efficiency, encourage
 alternatives and penalize high oil use (or at least don't motivate the opposite). Business
 use of SUVs has been abetted over the years by tax rules giving them the superior
 depreciation treatment accorded trucks, based on weight. No doubt this was a result of
 lobbying on the part of auto companies enjoying the high profitability of SUVs. Thus it's
 been cheaper for businesses to use a $30,000 SUV than a $30,000 car. We and our
 government have to make more responsible decisions.

 Finally, in order to make a genuine difference, we must invest on a vast scale in mass
 transit, energy efficiency and non-petroleum-based energy. This will have short term
 consequences: some combination of higher taxes, slower growth, reduced government
 spending in other areas, higher deficits and/or lower consumption levels. We can't spend
 to solve the energy problem and simultaneously avoid all of these effects. Does the will
 exist to do these things in advance of the day we have no alternative?

 Rather than tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (which is designated for emergencies,
 and high prices aren't an emergency), we could add to it. We could say, "Let's use less
 than all the oil that's available - and that we can afford - so as to leave some for
 future generations." But that requires selflessness and farsightedness that's far
 from in fashion.

 Who'll Own the World?

 In addition to the practical and geopolitical ramifications of the energy situation,
 we'd better consider the financial ones. When the price of oil gapped up in the 1970s,
 vastly increasing numbers of dollars started to move offshore in exchange for oil. The
 process of bringing them back came to be called "recycling petrodollars." There are both
 benefits and risks in this process.

 Earlier this month it was reported that our trade deficit declined in June because of rising
 foreign purchases of our products. That's one of the positive effects of the piling up of
 dollars abroad, and also of the fact that our goods priced in dollars look cheap to those
 outside the U.S. In short, we like having buyers for the things we have to sell.

 But sometimes we resent their presence. It doesn't take much for xenophobia to rear its
 ugly head. In the 1980s, there was fear that Japan's economic juggernaut would lead to a
 wholesale takeover of U.S. assets by Japanese buyers. A couple of years ago, proposed

 investments by China and Dubai in our oil and port industries were rebuffed, and last fall
 (before it was clear how desperately we needed more capital), people were grumbling
 about sovereign wealth funds' growing influence over our financial institutions.

 Well, what do you expect to happen? If we spend more than we bring in, and thus
 send dollars overseas to pay our tab, isn't it reasonable to expect that some will be
 brought back and spent here? Clearly, the oil producers will have the ability to buy
 our assets. And some, like Qatar and Abu Dhabi, are far too small for the amounts
 involved to be invested or spent in those countries without making their inflation worse
 than it already is.

 We're already seeing the effects. Financial institutions ran to sovereign wealth funds
 when they needed to add to their capital; who else is there? Room rates in hotels around
 the world are soaring in dollar terms. Powered by foreign buying, prices in the
 contemporary art market are moving out of sight, and so are high-end real estate prices in
 London and other cities of choice. Last month it was reported that a villa in the south of
 France had been sold to a Russian for $750 million: a great outcome for the seller, but
 also a sign that eventually we may be priced out of our own assets.

 With dollars moving abroad and exchange rates going against us, Americans are
 likely to find it harder to afford the goods and the standard of living they're used to,
 enjoy holidays overseas, and hold on to assets rather than succumbing to bids.

 The numbers involved are very substantial. On July 10, The New York Times wrote:

 With oil hovering near $140 a barrel, analysts expect countries in the
 [Persian] gulf to generate yearly cash surpluses of $300 billion . . . with
 sovereign funds in this area forecast to reach a size of $15 trillion by 2020.

 And of course, the numbers will do nothing but increase with time. The other day I was
 given a shorthand way to think about the situation: for every $1 in the price of a barrel of
 oil at a point in time, approximately $1 trillion will move from oil consumers to oil
 producers over the subsequent hundred years. Oil at $120 means the producers will
 reap about $120 trillion. To put this into perspective, the total value of the world's
 stock markets currently stands at about $47 trillion. So it's not much of an
 exaggeration to say the oil producers could own the world.

 You might argue that more fuel-efficient cars, electric cars, atomic cars, hydrogen power
 and cold fusion will alter the equation and prevent this massive shift of wealth. And we
 know for sure that high oil prices will reduce demand, encourage exploration and make
 invention and substitution economic. But I think it's smarter to think about the issue
 than just count on things to work out.

 We're From the Government and We're Here to Help

 Last month, in "Doesn't Make Sense," I labeled the obsession with the short term the
 worst thing about American business. But short-termism is far from limited to business.
 The process under which we're governed is even worse.

 In 2004, the Los Angeles Times asked me to write a review of Pete Peterson's excellent
 book on the looming fiscal crisis, "Running on Empty." One of his messages was that
 politicians are increasingly loath to take on the big issues of the future. Why should
 they? The prospects are unpleasant, and any solutions will entail pain. What politician
 would trade away votes today to solve problems that are likely to come to a head
 long after he or she has retired? As Peterson put it:

 . . . while our problems are not yet intractable, both political parties are
 increasingly incorrigible. They are not facing our problems, they are
 running from them. They are locked into a politics of denial, distraction,
 and self-indulgence that can only be overcome if readers like you take
 back this country from the ideologues and spin doctors of both the left and
 the right. . . .

 With faith-driven catechisms that are largely impervious to analysis or
 evidence, and that seem removed from any kind of serious political
 morality, both political parties have formed an unholy alliance - an
 undeclared war on the future. An undeclared war, that is, on our children.
 From neither party do we hear anything about sacrificing today for a
 better tomorrow. In some ways, our most formidable challenge may
 be our leaders' baffling indifference to our fiscal metastasis. As
 former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers puts it, "The only thing we
 have to fear is the lack of fear itself." (Emphasis added)

 It doesn't require higher math to see that we face serious problems in areas such as
 Federal deficits, the balance of payments, international competitiveness, energy,
 Social Security, Medicare and education. Certainly those problems won't solve
 themselves. But when did you last hear of any serious debate on them?

 Take the Social Security system. There are only four possibilities: (1) higher taxes,
 (2) lower benefits, (3) privatization, or (4) dealing with the system's insolvency when
 it occurs. But the first two are unpopular, and the third is politically contentious, given
 that it's inherently less egalitarian than the current system and could result in the
 government being on the hook as the payer of last resort. So that leaves the fourth . . .
 which is where we stay. This just is not an acceptable approach to problem solving.

 Likewise, everyone knows the tax code is overly complex, indecipherable and larded
 with provisions benefiting special interests. It desperately needs reworking from the
 ground up, but no one considers that politically doable.

 As The Wall Street Journal pointed out on June 24:

 When President Clinton tried to overhaul the health-care system, he
 couldn't get even a committee vote on his plan in a Congress his party
 controlled. When President George W. Bush tried to revamp Social
 Security, he couldn't get even a committee vote on his plan in a Congress
 his party controlled.

 Washington's failure to solve the big problems really gets me going, calling to mind
 a great quote from Will Rogers: "The more you observe politics, the more you've
 got to admit that each party is worse than the other."

 Condemnation of politicians needn't be universal. There actually are some I like. More
 than anything else, they're marked by a spirit of bipartisanship. Rather than consider
 politics a blood sport in which the only important goals are to embarrass the other side
 and win elections, they want to solve our nation's problems. I just think they're few in
 number, and much fewer than I recall from my youth.

 I confess that I feel the deck is stacked against government getting better. Less attention
 paid to newspapers and TV news, declining interest in national and international affairs,
 the rising role of the sound bite, generally shorter attention spans, a vanishing spirit of
 self-sacrifice, rising me-first-ism . . . where would optimism come from in this regard?
 We can hope, but I'm not that hopeful. The truth is that most people vote for the
 candidate who looks and sounds best in TV ads, who says what they want to hear, and
 who they think will put money in their pocketbooks today and brighten their lives
 tomorrow.

 Imagine two candidates for president. One says, "I'm going to give you eight years
 of discipline and denial - of higher taxes and lower spending - but I'll leave the
 country in better shape." The other says, "I have a secret plan that will solve all of
 our problems without requiring any sacrifice on your part." Who do you think
 would win?

 What Won't Work

 There are no simple solutions to these issues. But that's not going to keep simple
 solutions from being demanded. Two areas where we're likely to see them tried are tax
 progressiveness and global trade.

 A lot of populist rhetoric is coming from certain candidates for office this season, and if
 they're elected, they might try to redress the income disparity through tax increases at the
 top. As usual, they'll say, "We're not out to 'soak the rich.' We're just trying to make
 them pay their fair share." I don't know where the populists will go for their definition of
 a "fair share," but I'm pretty sure it'll turn out to be just a synonym for "more."

 The result would be tax increases on people who - not according to value judgments, but
 in sheer economic terms - are our most productive citizens. Such increases aren't the
 answer, and they can affect the economy negatively. Back in Britain's low days in the
 1970s, the top income tax rate was in the mid-90s (as was ours when I was a boy), and I
 read about a banker taking a week off from work to paint his house. The calculus was
 simple: it was cheaper for him to give up a week of after-tax salary than to pay the
 painter's bill.

 Taxation creates incentives: to work less, to hide income and, ultimately, to relocate
 income to avoid taxes. When a professional finds it economically attractive to forgo his
 pay to perform a physical task, the net result is a loss for the aggregate economy. This
 isn't the kind of incentive we should be presenting. What supply-siders did in the
 1980s was convince lawmakers of the effect of tax decisions on the operation of the
 macro economy. Their lesson mustn't be forgotten.

 Likewise, trade barriers sound like an easy solution but don't work.

 Operating freely, global trade causes each good to be produced where it can be done
 cheapest and best. In this way, aggregate efficiency is maximized, and thus so is
 aggregate societal welfare. Actions that interfere with efficiency and the free-market
 allocation of resources invariably will have a negative overall effect.
 It's highly unlikely that we can raise barriers and tariffs against others without
 causing them to retaliate.
 A protectionist decision is just a choice among potential beneficiaries. A ban on
 imports of cheap clothing, for example, would protect the incomes of Americans
 working in the garment and textile industries but cause all Americans to pay more for
 what they wear.

 As the last bullet point suggests, taxes and tariffs don't add value or make society
 better off; they merely represent decisions about how some elements in society are
 to be treated via-à-vis others. However, by interfering with the free-market allocation
 of resources, they're highly likely to detract from the overall economy. Bottom line:
 handle with care.

 * * *

 The more I think about solving problems, the more I believe one of the crucial choices is
 with regard to time frame. Short-term answers are very different from long-term
 answers. America's problems are long-term in nature and require long-term
 solutions. There are things that can help in the short term but be counterproductive
 in the long term, and we mustn't let them get in the way.

 Take the earlier discussion of oil prices. We know high prices discourage consumption
 and encourage conservation, fuel efficiency, exploration and the development of

 alternatives, and that low prices do the opposite. When people complain about high
 prices, vote-hungry politicians rush forward with short-term palliatives. But quick fixes
 will do nothing but exacerbate the long-term problem, while short-term pain is
 probably an essential part of its solution. In order to bring down oil prices in the long
 run, we need high oil prices in the short run.

 Because gasoline prices were up, Americans drove 12.2 billion (or 5%) fewer miles in
 June than they did a year earlier. That was the eighth down month in a row. In other
 words, high prices made people treat energy like the finite and valuable commodity it is.
 High prices aren't pleasant, but eventually they could help get us to the desired result.
 It's not for nothing that they say "no pain, no gain." (And for this reason, the 20%
 decline in oil prices over the last six weeks shouldn't be viewed as an unmitigated boon.)

 The short-term pleasure principle that seemingly governs today will make it challenging
 to implement disciplined and possibly painful solutions to the problems enumerated
 above, but they're the only way forward.

 * * *

 I hope you'll consider this memo constructive, and that it'll inform or inspire debate. The
 solutions to the problems I raise aren't obvious and won't come easily. But that's why
 these things must be tackled by skilled, apolitical problem solvers in and out of
 government. We need boldness, hard work and resolve from our leaders. And we need
 officeholders capable of imagining outcomes worse than losing an election. I can
 think of several.

 We tend to lurch from crisis to crisis. In difficult times like today, we're too busy putting
 out fires to pay attention to long-term problems. And then, when the crises recede,
 people celebrate the return of prosperity and forget about the distant future and the big
 picture. We'd all like to not have to face the problems I list. Indeed, we wish they
 didn't exist. But they do exist, and we must deal with them. And there can't be a
 better time than the present.

 P.s.: I always circulate my memos for comment before they're published, and this time I
 got a good one from Richard Masson. He's a very thoughtful guy, especially on bigger-
 picture matters - a bit of a libertarian, but also impossible to pigeonhole. I want you to
 have the benefit of his response:

 The best thing about our country is the resourcefulness of our citizenry
 and the flexibility of our institutions and laws. Creative destruction and a
 functioning market economy assure change toward the best solution over
 time. I generally agree with all your observations and concerns, but I have
 faith in our ability to create (rather than impose or legislate) solutions over
 time. Perhaps America will enjoy a manufacturing renaissance, or the cost
 of oil will force communities back together and facilitate greater
 interdependence between neighbors? Perhaps a slowing economy will
 slow immigration and create job opportunities for our less educated
 citizens (and youngsters). Perhaps our best and brightest will gravitate
 toward engineering and science rather than finance. In many ways, the
 next generation could enjoy a higher quality of life even at a measurably
 lower standard of living.

 I'd love it if Richard turned out to be right.


Memo: Nobody Knows.

The title of this memo isn't a joke; I mean it. Nobody knows the real significance of
 the recent events in the financial world, or what the future holds. Everyone has an
 opinion - there's an off-color joke to that effect - but opinions are entirely different from
 knowledge. As usual, the bulls are optimistic, the bears are pessimistic, and the rest are
 uncertain.

 This is a great time for my favorite quote from John Kenneth Galbraith: "There are two
 kinds of forecasters: those who don't know, and those who don't know they don't know."
 No one knows about the future, and that's more true now than ever . . . literally.
 Excesses were committed at financial institutions that we've never seen before in terms
 of their scale or their breadth, and many new inventions are in place that never existed
 before. So clearly no one can know how things will pan out.

 My conviction that this is true frees me from having to methodically assess the strength
 and weakness of economies and institutions, and it permits me to limit my comments to
 what I consider strategic realities.

 I'm flattered that people have asked for my opinion, and I will give it. But that's all it is:
 an opinion. In setting it down, I will repeat things I've written before. So if you find
 something that you think you're reading for the second time, you're probably right.

 Boom-Bust
 U

 Those two words say it all. If you have a boom, eventually you'll have a bust. And
 the further the boom goes, the worse the bust is likely to be. If there's no boom, on the
 other hand, there needn't be a bust.

 There was no great boom in the U.S. economy in 2003-07, and that's one of the reasons
 why it has held up reasonably well despite the recent turmoil.

 But there was an incredible boom in the financial sector, and it has led to an incredible
 bust. (It remains to be seen whether its effects will slop over into the real economy. As
 you know, we think they will.)

 Finally, there wasn't a boom in the U.S. stock market, and so it hasn't busted. (If you
 think your stocks have given you pain, realize that their decline isn't at all commensurate
 with the end-of-the-world thinking roiling the financial sector).

 How Things Got This Way
 U

 Much of the current problem can be attributed to a decades-long bubble in the financial
 sector that made it the employer of obvious choice; attracted employees who were "the
 best and the brightest" (although often untrammeled by experience); contributed to greed
 and risk taking; drove out fear and skepticism; and carried institutions, behavior,
 expectations and asset prices to unsustainable levels.

 What are the factors that got us in the current mess?

 Excess liquidity, which had to find a home.
 Interest rates that had been reduced to stimulate the economy.
 Dissatisfaction with the resulting prospective returns on low-risk investments.
 Inadequate risk aversion, and thus a willingness to step out on the risk curve in search
 of higher returns.
 A broad-scale willingness to try new things, such as structured products and
 derivatives, and to employ massive leverage.
 A desire on the part of financial institutions to supplement operating income with
 profits from proprietary risk taking - that is, to be "more like Goldman."
 A system of disintermediation, selling onward, and slicing and dicing that caused
 many participants to overlook risk in the belief that it had been engineered away.
 Excessive reliance on rating agencies which were far from competent to cope with the
 new instruments, and on black-box financial models that extrapolated recent history.
 Unquestioning acceptance of financial platitudes without wondering whether altered
 circumstances and elevated asset prices had rendered them irrelevant:
 o Houses and condos are good investments and can be counted on to appreciate.
 o Mortgages rarely go into default.
 o There can never be a nation-wide decline in home prices.
 o It's okay to grossly lever a balance sheet if you've hedged enough through
 derivatives.
 o It's safe to borrow and invest funds equal to a huge multiple of your equity
 capital if the probabilistic expected value is positive, because "disasters rarely
 happen."
 Individuals such as mortgage brokers and mortgage borrowers who were given
 incentives to do the wrong thing.
 Newly minted financial "masters of the universe" encouraged to maximize returns for
 themselves and their employers without concern for whether they were adding value
 to the financial system or endangering it.

 In general, the above can be summed up as a shortage of adult supervision, common
 sense, skepticism, ethical concern and good old-fashioned prudence. As often happens in
 booms, the kids shouldered the adults aside or impressed them too much.

 The list of errors can make you laugh . . . or cry. I mentioned in "Hindsight First, Please"
 how often financial people do things that look downright silly afterwards. But that never
 stops them from repeating the old mistakes or making new ones.

 So now we find financial institutions that endangered themselves by using extensive
 short-term borrowings or deposits to make investments that turned out to be
 enormously risky when an unlikely disaster - a nationwide decline in home prices -
 occurred.

 In many ways, changes in the environment contributed as well. They crept up one by
 one, unnoticed, but their combined effect is significant. For example,

 The Glass-Steagall Act was repealed, permitting banks and investment banks to
 combine. (It had been enacted in 1933 to outlaw such combinations because they
 were felt to have contributed to the Crash of '29. It's ironic - and certainly not
 irrelevant - that it was repealed in 1999, in time to contribute to the current credit
 crunch.)
 The rule limiting short sales to up-ticks was revoked in July 2007, enabling short
 selling to force stock prices down unabated.
 Derivatives were created whose prices were determined by the price of their "real"
 underlying securities; now we see that in an Alice-in-Wonderland way, they're able
 to influence the price of real securities (see below).
 And mark-to-market accounting exposed precariously leveraged institutions to the
 risk that technically-driven declines in asset values might leave them too weak to
 make it through to a better day.

 It was during my working lifetime that the phrase "too big to fail" was coined. More
 recently, Citibank caused some people to observe that it had become too big to manage.
 In the current go-round, financial institutions have been described as too big to
 understand and, finally, too big to disentangle (given the proliferation of derivatives and
 swap transactions, a key element in assessing an institution's essentialness is the degree
 of counter-party risk it presents to others). There's no doubt that these developments are
 frightening. But heroes aren't people who're unafraid, but rather those who act bravely
 despite their fears. Investors mustn't let emotion control their actions.

 Because of this combination of altered behavior, financial innovation and changes in
 the environment, I feel unable to tell you what lies ahead. But that doesn't mean
 I'm not going to suggest a course of action.

 Does the Market Know?
 U

 For reasons both systematic and unsystematic, the market is in many cases taking
 its lead from . . . the market. Price declines cause fear, and thus further price
 declines.

 In some cases, the signal for increased worry comes from increases in the price of credit
 default swaps, which provide insurance against debt defaults. Rising CDS prices imply
 that creditors have become more concerned. This can send down the prices of a

 company's stock and debt instruments and frighten customers and depositors into
 withdrawing funds, potentially leading to downgrading and failure. In other words,
 increases in prices for credit insurance can serve as self-fulfilling prophesies. This is the
 unintended consequence of one of the recent innovations.

 I want to mention the potential for manipulation present in this situation. One strong bid
 for default protection in the thin market for CDS on a given company can massively
 depress the price of billions of dollars worth of stock and/or debt. Clearly, an
 unscrupulous short-seller can use this tactic to his advantage. No one knows the extent to
 which it is in play . . . or how to stop it.

 In the end, people once again have to apply skepticism and their own judgment, this
 time to bad news. Is the market smart or dumb? Is it giving us a valid signal to get
 out or the buying opportunity of a lifetime? I seem to remember a useful quotation to
 the effect that "The market is an ass." Thus I think there's more money to be made by
 being a contrarian than a trend follower.

 The End of the Financial System
 U

 We're seeing and hearing things today that we never imagined.

 The demise or bailout of Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae
 and AIG.
 Concern about the viability of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, and huge
 declines in their stocks.
 Rising prices for CDS protection on U.S. Treasury securities.
 Rates on short-term T-bills close to zero because of an extreme flight to safety.
 Awareness for the first time, I think, that the U.S. government's financial resources
 are finite, and that there are limits on its ability to run the printing press and solve
 problems.

 Will the financial system melt down, or is this merely the greatest down cycle we've
 ever seen? My answer is simple: we have no choice but to assume that this isn't the
 end, but just another cycle to take advantage of.

 I must admit it: I say that primarily because it is the only viable position. Here are
 my reasons:

 It's impossible to assign a high enough probability to the meltdown scenario to justify
 acting on it.
 Even if you did, there isn't much you could do about it.*
 The things you might do if convinced of a meltdown would turn out to be disastrous
 if the meltdown didn't occur.

 Most of the time, the end of the world doesn't happen. The rumored collapses due to
 Black Monday in 1987 and Long-Term Capital Management in 1998 turned out to be
 just that.

 * -- Money has to be someplace; where would you put yours? If you put it in T-bills,
 what purchasing power would be accorded the dollars in which they're denominated? If
 the government's finances collapsed, what good would your dollars be, anyway? What
 depository wouldn't be in danger? If you and many others decided to put billions into
 gold, what price would you have to pay for it? Where would you store it, and how would
 you pay for the truck to move it? How would you spend it to buy the things you need?
 What would people pay you for your gold, and what would they pay you with? And what
 if you bought credit insurance on all of your holdings: who would be able to make good
 on your claims?

 No, I don't see any viable way to plan for the end of the world. I don't know any
 more than anyone else about its probability, but I see no use in panicking.

 I think the outlook has to be viewed as binary: will the world end or won't it? If you
 can't say yes, you have to say no and act accordingly. In particular, saying it will
 end would lead to inaction, while saying it's not going to will permit us to do the
 things that always have worked in the past.

 We will invest on the assumption that it will go on, that companies will make money,
 that they'll have value, and that buying claims on them at low prices will work in
 the long run. What alternative is there?

 U What Kind of Future Do We Face?

 Of course, even assuming there will be a recovery, we have to think about what it will
 look like. As I wrote in "Doesn't Make Sense," we aren't counting on a "V." We will
 continue to emphasize companies that we feel serve basic economic functions and can do
 relatively well even in bad times. Many elements in the economy are being damaged,
 especially confidence, and they may take a relatively long time to recover. In particular,
 the mechanism for providing capital is in great disrepair, and less credit certainly means a
 slower recovery and less growth.

 The financial institutions deserve a special mention. If there's ever been a sector that's
 down-and-out, this is probably it. Nevertheless, Oaktree generally demands more
 transparency in order to invest than most of them provide. It can seem almost impossible
 to ascertain their condition through due diligence, and absolutely impossible without
 access to their books. For example, possible buyers probably found the risks at Lehman
 Brothers to be unanalyzable. As The Wall Street Journal said on Tuesday,

 Even understanding Lehman's current trading positions was tough.
 Lehman's roster of interest-rate swaps (a type of derivative investment)
 ran about two million strong . . .

 What kind of effort would it require to understand the significance of two million
 derivatives positions: are they thoroughly hedged, or bullish or bearish on
 balance? And what about Lehman's millions of other derivatives and complex
 securities? This opacity, combined with heavy leverage, reliance on short-term
 funds, liquidity and conscious risk taking, is the reason why a loss of confidence
 is conceivable at any financial institution in times of panic.

 What will the Wall Street of the future look like? We read - and I don't doubt -
 that for at least a while it will be smaller, less leveraged, less profitable, and more
 highly regulated. But I also think it will be less competitive and less risky.

 In the course of my career, Wall Street went from being (1) brokers handling
 riskless trades for commission to (2) dealers buying and selling inventory for a
 spread to (3) block traders purchasing large amounts of stock when market
 liquidity was inadequate to (4) proprietary traders risking their own capital in
 pursuit of profit for the house. Backing down this progression wouldn't be the
 worst thing in the world.

 U What Will Start the Recovery?

 Eventually, someone will walk out of the crowd and take advantage of the lows.
 He may start an investment bank unburdened with a legacy of losing positions.
 Or a bond insurer like Warren Buffett did when MBIA and Ambac became
 impaired. The cause of the recovery can't be predicted. There may not even
 be a visible one. Maybe things will just get so cheap that they can't stay
 down. (In ancient history - November 2001 - I wrote "You Can't Predict; You
 Can Prepare," with a thorough description of how cycles happen, based on energy
 all their own. It might be worth digging up.)

 I like to point out that, even in retrospect, no one can say what started the collapse
 of the tech stock bubble in 2000. But it did start . . . just, I think, because stock
 prices rose far too high. That works in reverse, too.

 In March, in "The Tide Goes Out," I mentioned the three stages of a bull market,
 a notion I've been carrying around in my head for about 35 years:

 the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone's sure things will get better forever.

 As we all know, buying during the first stage can be highly profitable, while buying
 during the last euphoric stage usually leads to disaster.

 Then I went on to create the converse of the above, the three stages of a bear market:

 the first, when just a few prudent investors recognize that, despite the prevailing
 bullishness, things won't always be rosy,
 the second, when most investors recognize things are deteriorating, and
 the third, when everyone's convinced things can only get worse.

 In the final stage, you can buy assets at prices that reflect little or no optimism.
 There can be no doubt that we are in the third stage with regard to many financial
 institutions. Not necessarily at the bottom, but in a serious period of unremitting
 pessimism. No one seems able to imagine how the current vicious circle will
 be interrupted. But I think we must assume it will be.

 It must be noted that, just like two years ago, people are accepting as true
 something that has never held true before. Then, it was the proposition that
 massively levered balance sheets had been rendered safe by the miracle of
 financial engineering. Today, it's the non-viability of the essential financial
 sector and its greatest institutions.

 Everyone was happy to buy 18-24-36 months ago, when the horizon was
 cloudless and asset prices were sky-high. Now, with heretofore unimaginable
 risks on the table and priced in, it's appropriate to sniff around for bargains: the
 babies that are being thrown out with the bath water. We're on the case.


Memo: Plan B.

Over the last decade or two, Plan A consisted of relying on the free market to maximize
 economic growth and efficiency (as described in "The Aviary," May 2008). What can
 we say about that? Oops? We don't hear much at this moment about market efficiency,
 or about the proposition that it would cause complex mortgage-backed securities to be
 priced right.

 So now we have Plan B, better known as TARP, the Troubled Asset Relief Program. On
 the heels of other injections of capital by the U.S. Treasury and Fed and central banks
 elsewhere, it was proposed on Friday that up to $700 billion be spent to purchase "toxic"
 mortgage securities from financial institutions that are weighed down with them.

 Ya' Gotta Believe
 U

 Those who have more money than they need lend it to those with use for more money
 than they have. This process is called providing credit. The movement of credit puts
 otherwise-idle money to work and thus adds to economic output. Economies run on
 credit.

 According to Merriam-Webster, the word "credit" is derived from the Latin
 credere: "to believe, entrust." We provide credit when we believe in borrowers and
 trust that they'll pay us back (although we believe in some more than others and charge
 the latter more interest). Further, the entire economy runs on trust: that the people to
 whom we provide goods and services will pay their bills; that contracts will be adhered
 to; and that money will retain value, or at least the part that inflation doesn't erode.

 Belief is what makes the economic world go round. Take a minute to think about how
 we would behave in a world in which there wasn't trust in money, the institutions that
 store it and the mechanisms that move it from one place to another. Clearly, we'd be
 sunk without trust in the financial system.

 I've described in the past how financial institutions are vulnerable to loss of faith
 because of their unique combination of opacity, leverage, conscious risk bearing,
 and their use of short-term deposits and borrowings to fund longer-term, illiquid
 assets. When providers of capital lose faith in a financial institution, they line up to
 withdraw their money. But the institution can't give them all back their money, because
 it can't liquify all of its assets immediately. Attempts to do so increase the downward

 pressure on asset prices, further weakening financial positions and reinforcing the loss of
 faith. And thus the circle becomes vicious and we have a "run on the bank."

 We saw many runs on banks during the Great Depression; the result was the introduction
 of federal deposit insurance. We also saw a bank run in the U.K. last year, when
 depositors lined up at the Northern Rock building society until the Bank of England
 calmed fears by guaranteeing all deposits. (I had money there, and believe me, absent the
 guarantee, the 2% penalty for early withdrawals would have been powerless to dissuade
 me from moving the remaining 98% to a safer institution. Take a few hundred or
 thousand of me, and you have a run on the bank.)

 In short, the government is attempting to prevent a loss of belief. Is such a thing
 possible? Ask yourself whether eight months ago you thought possible this year's
 developments at Bear Stearns, IndyMac, Lehman Brothers, AIG, Fannie Mae and Freddie
 Mac. To some extent, they all stemmed from a loss of faith.

 The Source of the Problem
 U

 There are two principal fundamental causes behind the events we're seeing. The
 first is the huge losses in complex mortgage-backed securities. As I've written before,
 the issuance and purchase of these securities resulted from the following confluence of
 factors:

 Quest for return, decline in risk aversion and lowering of skepticism.
 A boom in home prices and a belief that they couldn't fall back en masse.
 Securitization and selling onward of debt - which eliminated lenders' hesitance to
 lend and led to a process in which everyone profited when a loan was made.
 Thus an increased willingness to lend higher percentages of the skyrocketing prices of
 homes, even where the borrower couldn't demonstrate creditworthiness.
 Widespread use of leverage (because the risks were underrated) and complexity in
 fashioning mortgage-backed securities.
 Massive shortcomings at rating agencies that erroneously described the resulting
 securities as investment grade, and sometimes even "super senior."

 In this way, enormous amounts of overrated securities came to the market. They went to
 financial institutions that didn't understand the riskiness of what they were buying and
 thus permitted themselves to become vastly overleveraged.

 I'll keep it simple. Suppose you have $1 million in equity capital. You borrow $29
 million and buy $30 million of mortgage loans. Twenty percent (or $6 million) of the
 mortgages go into default, and the recovery on them turns out to be only two-thirds ($4
 million). Thus you've lost $2 million . . . your equity capital twice over. Now you have
 equity capital of minus $1 million, with assets of $28 million and debt of $29 million.
 Everyone realizes that there'll be nothing left for the people who're last in line to
 withdraw their money, so there's a run on the bank. And you slide into bankruptcy.

 Because of the high regard in which financial institutions were held; because of the
 implied government backing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and because permissible
 leverage increased over time, financial institutions' equity capital was permitted to
 become highly inadequate given the riskiness of the assets they held. Or perhaps I should
 say institutions took on too many risky assets given the limitations of their equity capital.
 That, in a nutshell, is why institutions have disappeared.

 The second fundamental factor leading up to the current mess was the creation of
 the vast market in derivatives, especially credit default swaps (CDS). In the current
 decade, CDS came into broad use as a mechanism for insuring against defaults. For an
 up-front fee and an annual premium, holders of debt could get someone else to promise
 that they'd buy that debt at face value in the case of a default or other "credit event."

 The buyers of CDS accepted at face value that the writers of the insurance would pay if
 there was a default. For this reason, because Bank A had bought insurance on Company
 X's debt from Hedge Fund B, it considered it safe to sell insurance to Bank C. But what
 if X defaults and A has to pay C but can't collect from B? There's over $60 trillion of
 CDS outstanding, and a lot of it is well hedged in theory; thus the net exposure to defaults
 if everyone pays might be rather small. But if some counterparties are unable to pay,
 institutions that bought insurance from them (or from others that bought from those
 institutions) might fail to receive billions in payments. Consider it one big daisy chain.
 It's probably because of its position as a counterparty that Bear Stearns wasn't permitted
 to fail in March (while Lehman was cut adrift this month when its failure was judged to
 be bearable).

 Of course, these two developments have been complicated by (a) the fact that no one can
 reasonably say what the home underlying a mortgage is worth (the intrinsic value of a
 non-cash-producing asset is a useless concept in the short run), (b) the fact that no one
 knows how the credit swap market will function in a crisis, and (c) their own sheer
 magnitude. The sum of the foregoing has the potential to place in jeopardy any financial
 institution that lacks federal backing. It's for this reason that the government has
 assumed the liabilities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, lent money to AIG, accepted
 Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley as bank holding companies (with permanent access
 to Fed borrowings), backstopped money market funds, and now proposes to purchase
 $700 billion of mortgage securities.

 Does Ben Know Something We Don't?
 U

 I cited the above headline in "Now What?" last January. That's what breakingviews.com
 asked about the Fed's September 2007 decision to cut rates by 50 basis points rather than
 the expected 25. Clearly Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke thought the circumstances called
 for stronger medicine than most observers.

 Now it's clear that both Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson envision
 possible consequences justifying the strongest possible action. Last weekend, for
 example, Paulson said in an interview, "I don't like the fact that we have to do this. I
 hate the fact that we have to do it. But it's better than the alternative." (Emphasis
 added)

 What is the alternative? As I suggested last week in "Nobody Knows," there really is no
 outcome so negative that it can't be imagined. That doesn't mean terrible things will
 happen if no action is taken, but the possibilities are there, causing fear. Obviously,
 Bernanke and Paulson feel some of them could come to pass, and I respect their opinion.

 So what is that alternative Paulson alludes to? Cascading bank failures? Interlocking
 dependence on counterparties in the derivatives markets who lack the ability to make
 good on their liabilities? Ultimately, reduced faith in U.S. Treasury securities and the
 dollar? As I said last week, I don't know. But it's not unreasonable to respect these
 possibilities. Our leaders want to justify the strongest action in history without spooking
 the market by enumerating the possibilities, so they're not being too specific. The Great
 Depression is our only model. I believe it justifies strong action.

 Let me take a moment to say we're enormously lucky to have the right team in place at
 this time. Bernanke is a highly respected academic expert on the Great Depression, and
 Paulson is the very successful practitioner who chaired Goldman Sachs, an institution for
 which I have enormous respect. Being human, they're unlikely to get it all right. But I
 can't think of anyone I'd rather have in their jobs.

 The Plan and the Stumbling Blocks
 U

 The plan is simple. In fact, to some it's too un-bureaucratic to be acceptable. The
 Treasury will use up to $700 billion to purchase the most toxic mortgage-backed
 securities from financial institutions - both U.S. and foreign - that do business in the U.S.
 This will reduce the doubt about the institutions' solvency and, in place of unsalable
 assets, give them cash they can lend. No external oversight or internal process is
 specified, and the result will be immune from examination by other authorities and from
 litigation.

 Having described the plan in one paragraph, it'll take much more space to discuss the
 complaints being voiced and the obstacles in its path.

 We're asked to trust the judgment and integrity of the Treasury Department. I find
 this a pragmatic and direct solution. Others more skeptical than me disagree. Some
 think Paulson will be biased in favor of Goldman Sachs and the rest of Wall Street,
 but I'm convinced he took the job out of noblesse oblige - not for money or fun, I
 think - and I trust him to do his level best.

 On that subject, let me share a little history. Fifteen years ago, the staff of the
 Resolution Trust Company asked if we could help them achieve fair prices in
 disposing of the assets they'd taken on from failed S&Ls. I outlined a plan under
 which brokers would be asked for bids and we would watch the brokers, judging the
 adequacy of those bids. "But who'll watch you," they asked. My reply: "I've got
 bad news: you're going to have to trust someone." I'm perfectly happy trusting the
 Paulson-led Treasury.

 In a similar vein, some are complaining about the lack of supervision in the plan. The
 Financial Times quoted Barack Obama as saying, "We cannot give a blank check to
 Washington with no oversight or accountability . . ." Well, for my part, I'd rather
 entrust power to one wise man than a committee or bureaucracy consisting of average
 people. I think Paulson is that one wise man, but I'm also sure he's smart enough to
 surround himself with others who are equally capable.

 What will the marching orders be? In particular, what sort of prices will be paid?
 Fair market prices or higher? First of all, it's almost impossible to come up with a
 fair or "market" price for many of these assets today. Second, paying just the market
 price in the current highly depressed market wouldn't do much for the institutions'
 net capital position. But third, if more than the market price is paid, that'll be seen as
 a "giveaway to Wall Street." It has to be made explicit - to those expected to
 approve the plan, and certainly to those expected to carry it out - whether these
 will be straight sales at market or they'll include a subsidy. I think a bunch of the
 latter is called for.

 Even beyond the points listed above, another issue may present a bigger
 stumbling block. The greatest reluctance may relate to the fact that, under the
 plan, when the process restores the viability of institutions that now are
 burdened with negative book value and inadequate confidence, the immediate
 financial benefits would go to shareholders and executives who either
 participated in the creation of the problem or, at any rate, should be penalized
 for the companies' failings.

 To solve the problem, some say that in exchange for taking securities off institutions'
 hands - especially at above-market prices - the government should get ownership
 positions in those institutions. But how much? What would be the proper quid pro
 quo? If a $1 billion purchase of debt at $200 million above market saved a $15
 billion institution, what piece of the company should the government receive? Do we
 want the government owning large pieces of private companies, or running them?
 And would that ownership stake then put the government in a conflict position vis-à-
 vis the institutions where it's not an owner? This is obviously a complex issue, and
 I'd hate to see it delay the solution of the problems we face.

 Further, there are calls for requiring executives at the institutions involved to accept
 limits on their compensation. What could be worse than setting up reasons for people
 to hesitate before reaching for this lifeline?

 Certainly politics will be a major factor in whether the plan is enacted and in what
 form. In that regard, there couldn't be a worse time for this to be debated than six
 weeks before the election.

 After being well ahead in the polls until late August, Barack Obama lost his lead
 when the Republicans held their convention and made Sarah Palin their vice
 presidential candidate. But last week, when the economic crisis exploded and John
 McCain described the economy as strong, the Democrats pulled back into the lead.
 That's not lost on them, and I'm sure they'll continue to use the issue to maximum
 advantage. They'll complain about the one-sidedness of the Wall Street bailout and
 demand something for "the rest of us," like further economic stimulus, direct relief
 for mortgage borrowers, and loans to the auto makers. This politicizing might delay
 the process, encumber it with baggage, or make it unattractive to its supporters.

 Democrats will attack the plan to make Republicans look bad, and conservative
 Republicans may resist it as an unwarranted extension of the government's reach. In
 the end I feel it'll pass, but who knows in what form.

 I don't view the plan as mainly a bailout for Wall Street and fat cats. Saving the
 financial system will benefit all users of capital, including home buyers and auto
 makers. Of course, that may sound like "trickle-down economics," which some are
 happy to rail against.

 I think federal ownership would be a very hairy matter. But in this case I do have a
 solution, at least regarding the prices at which the government resells the debt: Why not
 simply say that the government should receive half of the buyers' return in excess of
 a 20% yearly rate, or some such? Ownership would present challenges, but sharing in
 the benefit would not.

 U Who's In the Wrong?

 There'll be cries for scalps, and politicians will play to the crowd by assigning blame.
 This should be primarily a side-show, but it can grow into a significant distraction.

 Short sellers are in the crosshairs most prominently. It is a simple fact that ever since the
 up-tick rule was revoked fourteen months ago, short sellers have had the ability to drive
 down stock prices, which they couldn't do if a short sale could only take place at a price
 higher than the last trade. It's also a fact that some financial stocks have fallen, and that
 their declines have added to worries about the companies, inducing further declines. Of
 course, no connection between the two has yet been proved.

 As a result of the recent market action, short selling was outlawed in roughly 800
 financial stocks, including outliers such as General Electric. This action was coincident
 with last Friday's rally, and people breathed a sigh of relief. Had short sellers been

 responsible for the demise of Lehman? Should short selling be banned? As usual, the
 answer isn't clear.

 Balancing out the simple truths stated above, a number of factors argue in favor of short
 selling or against a ban:

 Short selling isn't "worse" than outright buying. One makes stocks go down; the
 other makes them go up. Why is shorting - selling what you don't own - any worse
 than buying what you don't own?
 Short selling is a highly legitimate way for investors to act on their belief that a
 stock's price is too high. Thus it tends to help stocks sell at fair prices.
 Short selling can bring losses to those who hold stock, but unabated buying can force
 stock prices to too-high levels where no one should buy. What can we do to prevent
 injury from purchases during unjustified booms?
 Sure you can keep stock prices from being forced down by outlawing short
 selling. But then why not outlaw all selling? Think of what that would do for
 stock prices!

 In the short run, protecting the financial system is more important than preserving market
 efficiency or heeding the above arguments. Thus I do not think it was a mistake to ban
 short selling for the time being.

 In the long run, however, I feel a ban on short selling is not in order, although I consider
 it desirable for the up-tick rule to be brought back.

 Finally, as with many other things, the real problem isn't with short selling, but with
 abusive short selling. Manipulating the market to make short positions profitable by
 spreading negative rumors or bidding up CDS (see "Nobody Knows" from last week)
 should be driven out . . . although doing so won't be easy.

 * * *

 The trouble with memo writing at times like these is that there's always more. But this is
 a good time to wrap up regarding the Treasury's plan. My conclusions are as follows:

 In the period 2003-07, the government, and especially the Fed, stimulated the
 economy and the financial system when they should have been acting restrictively to
 curb excesses. On the contrary, stimulation is in order today to prevent serious
 damage. I think we're going to get it.

 But I also expect to see a rising tide of regulation of financial institutions in the period
 ahead, and I don't think restrictiveness will be the right thing until the system is on a firm
 footing. It's widely agreed that the authorities contributed to the severity of the

 Depression by withdrawing liquidity when they should have been increasing it. Let's not
 tighten again.

 In "Doesn't Make Sense" in July, I listed four things that have to happen in order for the
 trends in mortgages and financial institutions to turn positive:

 Home prices have to stop going down.
 Home mortgages have to be made available.
 Financial institutions have to stop experiencing incremental write-offs.
 Financial institutions have to be able to raise additional capital with which to rebuild
 their balance sheets.

 I also pointed to the complication: that each of these four things is dependent on the
 occurrence of another. The good news is that the Treasury plan has the potential to
 break into the cycle of negativity, directly address the third and fourth of these, and
 thus contribute to the first and second. That's why I'm all for it.

 In the Depression, the engine of capital provision went into a long-term stall, and we
 know the consequences. The attempt now is to jump-start processes that have
 stalled and prevent the rest from doing so. I'm sure this is the right thing to do, and
 I hope for its success.

 P.s., In "You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." (November 2001), I described the
 process through which stock markets pull out of declines and turn upward:

 Stocks are cheapest when everything looks grim. The depressing outlook keeps
 them there, and only a few astute and daring bargain hunters are willing to take
 new positions. Maybe their buying attracts some attention, or maybe the
 outlook turns a little less depressing, but for one reason or another, the market
 starts moving up.

 In the latest development, it was announced yesterday that Berkshire Hathaway would
 invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs stock. Warren Buffett exemplifies the kind of person
 who can step out of the crowd. Perhaps his example can make a few more people stop
 worrying about losing money and start worrying about missing out on gains. One of
 these days, that'll happen, and things will turn for the better.


Memo: The Limits to Negativism.

The markets acted on Monday as if the credit crisis is behind us - how incredible it
 is to be able to even write those words, whether true or not. Whichever is the case,
 however, it's important to reflect on what can be learned from the recent events. (I
 developed these thoughts last week but just wasn't quick enough to turn them into a
 memo. So I'm reduced to discussing what we all hope is history rather than displaying
 foresight.)

 The Swing of Psychology
 U

 The last few weeks witnessed the greatest panic I've ever seen, as measured by its
 severity, the range of assets affected, its worldwide scope and the negativity of the
 accompanying tales of doom. I've been through market crashes before, but none
 attributed to the coming collapse of the world financial system.

 It's worth noting that few of the recent sharp price declines were associated with
 weakness in the depreciating assets or the companies behind them. Rather, they
 were the result of market conditions brought on by psychology, technical
 developments and their interconnection. The worst of them reflected a spiral of
 declining security prices, mark-to-market tests, capital inadequacy, margin calls, forced
 selling and failures.

 It was readily apparent that such a spiral was underway, and no one could see how or
 when it might end. That was really the problem: no scenario was too negative to be
 credible, and any scenario incorporating an element of optimism was dismissed as
 Pollyannaish.

 There was an element of truth in this, of course: nothing was impossible. But in dealing
 with the future, we must think about two things: (a) what might happen and (b) the
 probability it will happen.

 During the crisis, lots of bad things seemed possible, but that didn't mean they were
 going to happen. In times of crisis, people fail to make that distinction. Since we
 never know much about what the future holds - and in a crisis, with careening causes and
 consequences, certainly less than ever - we must decide which side of the debate is more
 likely to be profitable (or less likely to be wrong).

 For forty years I've seen the manic-depressive cycle of investor psychology swing
 crazily: between fear and greed - we all know the refrain - but also between optimism
 and pessimism, and between credulity and skepticism. In general, following the beliefs
 of the herd - and swinging with the pendulum - will give you average performance in the
 long run and can get you killed at the extremes.

 Two or three years ago, the world was so different as to be almost beyond remembering.
 It was ruled by greed, optimism and credulity. In short, it was the opposite of the last
 few weeks: no story was too positive to be believed.

 "There's a worldwide 'wall of liquidity' that can never dry up."
 "Triple-A CDOs are as safe as triple-A corporate debt but will deliver higher returns."
 "Leverage holds the key to better investment results."
 "Tranching and selling onward are spreading the risk, thereby eliminating it."
 "Decoupling has reduced nations' economic reliance on the U.S."

 Boy, what a good time that was for a dose of skepticism! What benefits it could have
 provided (in terms of losses avoided). But when conventional wisdom is rosy, few can
 stand against it. People who do so too early look woefully wrong and are swept aside.
 That discourages others from trying the same thing, even as the cycle swings further to
 the positive extreme.

 The Black Swan
 U

 You may recall that in "The Aviary" in May, I wrote about The Black Swan, the second
 book from Nassim Nicholas Taleb, author of Fooled by Randomness. In The Black
 Swan, Taleb talks about unlikely, extreme, unpredictable events that have the potential
 for dramatic impact. His title was derived from the fact that, never having traveled to
 Australia and seen its black swans, Europeans of a few centuries ago were convinced all
 swans were white. In other words, because they'd never seen something, they considered
 it impossible.

 The message of The Black Swan is how important it is to realize that the things
 everyone rules out can still come to pass. That might be generalized into an
 understanding of the importance of skepticism.

 I'd define skepticism as not believing what you're told or what "everyone" considers
 true. In my opinion, it's one of the most important requirements for successful
 investing. If you believe the story everyone else believes, you'll do what they do.
 Usually you'll buy at high prices and sell at lows. You'll fall for tales of the "silver
 bullet" capable of delivering high returns without risk. You'll buy what's been doing
 well and sell what's been doing poorly. And you'll suffer losses in crashes and miss out
 when things recover from bottoms. In other words, you'll be a conformist, not a
 maverick (an overused word these days); a follower, not a contrarian.

 Skepticism is what it takes to look behind a balance sheet, the latest miracle of financial
 engineering or the can't-miss story. The idea being marketed by an investment banker or
 broker has been prettied up for presentation. And usually it's been doing well, making
 the tale more credible. Only a skeptic can separate the things that sound good and
 are from the things that sound good and aren't. The best investors I know exemplify
 this trait. It's an absolute necessity.

 The White Swan
 U

 Most people probably took away from The Black Swan the same lessons I did (and the
 lessons mentioned in "The Aviary"): "unlikely" isn't the same as "impossible," and it's
 essential for investors to be able to get through the low spots.

 Of course, it's improbable events that brought on the credit crisis. Lots of bad things
 happened that had been considered unlikely (if not impossible), and they happened at the
 same time, to investors who'd taken on significant leverage. So the easy explanation is
 that the people who were hurt in the credit crisis hadn't been skeptical - or pessimistic -
 enough.

 But that triggered an epiphany: Skepticism and pessimism aren't synonymous.
 U

 Skepticism calls for pessimism when optimism is excessive. But it also calls for
 optimism when pessimism is excessive . I'll write some more on the subject, but it's
 U

 really as simple as that.

 Contrarianism - doing the opposite of what others do, or "leaning against the wind" - is
 essential for investment success. But as the credit crisis reached a peak last week, people
 succumbed to the wind rather than resisting. I found very few who were optimistic;
 most were pessimistic to some degree. Some became genuinely depressed - even a few
 great investors I know. Increasingly negative tales of the coming meltdown were
 exchanged via email. No one applied skepticism, or said "that horror story's unlikely to
 be true." Pessimism fed on itself. People's only concern was bullet-proofing their
 portfolios to get through the coming collapse, or raising enough cash to meet
 redemptions. The one thing they weren't doing last week was making aggressive bids for
 securities. So prices fell and fell - the old expression is "gapped down" - several points
 at a time.

 The key - as usual - was to become skeptical of what "everyone" was saying and
 doing. One might have said, "Sure, the negative story may turn out to be true, but
 certainly it's priced into the market. So there's little to be gained from betting on it. On
 the other hand, if it turns out not to be true, the appreciation from today's depressed
 levels will be enormous. I buy!" The negative story may have looked compelling, but
 it's the positive story - which few believed - that held, and still holds, the greater
 potential for profit.

 The Future
 U

 I write a lot to dissect and explain past events, but I'll try here to make a contribution by
 taking the riskier path of talking about the future. What do I see?

 As for the short term, it's been amply demonstrated that governments and central
 banks will do everything they can to resolve the credit crisis. No stone will go
 unturned, and few options will be declined. Most people now believe that letting Lehman
 Brothers go was a big mistake: as a result of a calculated decision, discipline took
 precedence over rescue. The results were disastrous, as the commercial paper market
 froze up, money market funds "broke the buck," and the crisis was ratcheted up several
 notches.

 Most people don't repeat their mistakes; they make new ones. So we should expect that
 all key players will be rescued in the period ahead. Some elements of that effort will be
 mistakes, but at least those mistakes won't pull down the financial system. Morgan
 Stanley was the next big worry but, after Lehman, it became unlikely that Morgan would
 be allowed to fail. I was asked, "Will the U.S. government guarantee a capital
 investment made by a Japanese institution?" Absolutely, if that's what it takes. It beats
 the U.S. having to put up its own money.

 The sums being thrown around are the biggest ever: hundreds of billions, adding up
 to trillions. But there's no hesitation: everything will be done. That doesn't mean it
 has to work, but it's likely to.

 Walter Wriston led Citibank from 1967 to 1984, all but my final year there. He was the
 world's leading banker and a great guy. One of his most famous observations was,
 "countries don't go bust." I assume he was making reference to their ownership of
 printing presses, and thus their unlimited ability to pay their local-currency obligations.
 That's the main reason why we shouldn't expect there to be any limit on the resources
 thrown at the problem. All it will take is running the printing presses long enough to
 rebuild financial institutions' capital accounts, make good guarantees and enable
 borrowers to roll over their outstanding debt, all of which is reckoned in nominal terms.
 The philosophical bridge of unlimited aid to private institutions appears to have
 been crossed, and printing the necessary money is unlikely to be an issue.

 Of course, that doesn't mean we're out of the woods. Creating money isn't the end of
 the story. What will be the effect?

 First, the people who have money have to make the decision to lend to those who need it
 to fund their businesses. The Fed's provision of capital to financial institutions - even at
 ultra-low interest rates - isn't enough. If banks borrow money cheaply and lend it to
 people who don't repay them, they'll be out a lot of low-cost capital. And if they're on
 the hook for repaying the Fed, they'll be way behind. Because of residual conservatism,
 the steps so far might have the ineffectiveness of "pushing on a string," something I

 mentioned in "Now What?" in January. We still have to see money begin to circulate
 throughout the system.

 Jim Grant, the creator of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, uses a great phrase to
 describe liquidity and credit: "money of the mind." Unlike actual currency, it
 grows and shrinks depending on people's moods - we've just seen a great
 demonstration. So it's not enough for the Fed to give money to financial institutions;
 they have to be convinced to provide liquidity and credit.

 In recent times, the Fed has provided a lot of capital to banks, but it has also taken in a lot
 of deposits from banks. We want to see the Fed's advance reloaned, not put on deposit.
 That's what it'll take to restart the credit machine.

 Even when credit starts flowing again, however, I doubt things will return immediately to
 their old pace. Losses have been taken and capital destroyed, and more losses may still
 be incoming (ask yourself if home prices are finished going down). More importantly,
 psyches have been damaged: consumer psychology, lenders' willingness, even investor
 confidence - all have taken a beating. I doubt if things will bounce right back. There just
 won't be the same expansiveness. I'll stick with what I said in "Now What?"

 Undoubtedly, credit will be harder to obtain. Economic growth will slow:
 the question is whether it will remain slightly positive or go negative,
 satisfying the requirement for the label "recession." Regardless, positive
 thinking and thus risk taking are likely to be diminished. All I can say for
 sure is that the world will be less rosy in financial terms, and results are
 likely to be less positive than they otherwise would have been.

 Awash in Money
 U

 In the longer term, we have to wonder about the effect on the world of a glut of
 newly printed dollars, sterling and euros. The reason owning printing presses makes
 repayment easy is that it lets a nation cheapen its currency. But one would think that
 more units of currency per unit of GDP means a debasement of the currency, and thus
 reduced purchasing power (read: higher inflation).

 Walking along Hyde Park on Sunday, I saw a street vendor selling old stock certificates.
 Do you have any banknotes, I asked? Anything from the Weimar Republic? For the last
 few weeks, I've wanted to get some of those.

 In Weimar Germany, the government enabled itself to pay World War I reparations by
 cheapening its currency . . . literally. So the 1,000 mark note I bought was simply over-
 stamped One Million Marks in red. Voila! Now we're all rich.

 The mark fell from 60 to the U.S. dollar in early 1921 to 320 to the dollar in early 1922
 and 8,000 to the dollar by the end of 1922. It's hard to believe, but according to
 Wikipedia (user-maintained and perhaps not always the most authoritative):

 In December 1923 the exchange rate was 4,200,000,000,000 Marks to 1
 U.S. dollar. In 1923, the rate of inflation hit 3.25 x 10 6 percent per month
 P P

 (prices double every two days).

 One of the firms printing these [new 100 trillion Mark] notes submitted an
 invoice for 32,776,899,763,734,490,417.05 (3.28 x 10 19 , or 33 quintillion)
 P P

 Marks. [That's not a misprint.]

 Lord Keynes judged the situation this way:

 The inflationism of the currency systems of Europe has proceeded to
 extraordinary lengths. The various belligerent governments, unable, or too
 timid or too short-sighted to secure from loans or taxes the resources they
 required, have printed notes for the balance.

 But it's not that easy. People with things to sell aren't that stupid. So instead of 1,000
 marks, a goat now costs one million marks. That piece of paper used to be a thousand
 mark note - and now it's a million mark note - but it still buys the same goat.

 The benefit to the government is that it's able to pay off its old nominal debts in currency
 of which it suddenly has a lot more . . . but which no longer has much purchasing power.
 So when repaid in the cheapened currency in 1923, the person to whom the government
 owed 1,000 marks can only buy one-thousandth of a goat - not a whole goat as in 1920.

 My late friend Henry Reichmann was a boy then, working as a busboy in a restaurant in
 Berlin. He told me he used to be paid at lunchtime and immediately ran out to spend his
 salary, since it would buy less if he waited until after work to shop.

 That's hyperinflation. Just as the Great Depression became a model during the credit
 crisis, Weimar Germany gives us something to think about regarding our new future.
 I'm not smart enough to know what's coming, but I'm also not dumb enough to
 think a few government actions on Monday were enough to solve all our problems.
 At best, we usually substitute one problem for another - usually one later on in lieu of
 today's.

 I don't know what to do about this risk, whether it'll come home to roost, or to what
 extent. And I certainly don't think hyperinflation can be assigned a high enough
 probability to make it worth doing much about. But it may cause one to rethink holdings
 of low-yielding, flight-to-quality-elevated, long-term Treasurys.

 The New Financial Order
 U

 My daughter Jane - the artistic member of the family - has developed a strong interest in
 politics and economics of late. (I think this is happening to young people all across the
 U.S., and it's a very favorable development.) On Saturday she called to ask what I
 thought about government ownership of banks.

 First, I said, I thought it could make an important contribution to solving the short-term
 problem, and that's good.

 Second, however, the U.S. has a strong tradition of government non-involvement in
 business, and we'd probably like to see it stay that way. "Nationalization" is a much
 dirtier word in America than in most other places (International Herald Tribune headline,
 October 14 - "Nationalization rule: Do it, but don't say it"). My preference, I told Jane,
 is for free enterprise with some adult supervision. When we make fundamental changes
 in the system, it's hard to foresee all the consequences. Consider these questions:

 Will legislators push bankers to make more loans to their constituents (remember
 Fannie and Freddie)?
 Will the banks have to lend to everyone, even weak borrowers? Will they be allowed
 to reject any applicants?
 Will they be prevented from foreclosing when mortgages are unpaid?
 Will they be deterred from financing "anti-social" investments like leveraged
 buyouts?
 Will they be limited in compensating executives? Will that make them less attractive
 as employers?
 Will bank employees worry about being penalized for errors of commission but not
 errors of omission?
 If so, will banks be staffed by people who are overly risk-averse? Will they lean
 toward saying "no"?
 Will capital be harder to come by, especially for smaller, younger companies?
 Will economic growth be slower than it otherwise would have been?
 Will non-government-owned banks be at a disadvantage because, as weaker credits,
 they'll have to pay more than the competition for their capital?

 No one knows, but these questions deserve consideration. Here's the underlying
 question: if the government's equity is non-voting, will that be enough to keep it out
 of the banks' affairs? It's far too soon to say (and hard to be completely optimistic).

 I continue to believe the financial sector of the future will be less leveraged, less risk-
 prone, less profitable, slower growing and more regulated. And that'll make it less
 exciting, less glamorous and less the employer of choice. But the beauty of the free-
 market system is that most developments entail plusses as well as minuses. I've believed
 for many years that just as success carries within itself the seeds of failure (see 2003-
 08), so does failure carry the seeds of success.

 If the banks are made more bureaucratic and risk-averse - and less aggressive and
 competitive - I'm sure independent boutiques will arise and prosper. The model I have
 in mind is a forest fire: a year after, bright green shoots grow from the ashes; in fact, I
 think they're fertilized by the ashes. Think what a landscape like that means for advisory
 firms like Moelis, Evercore, Gleacher and Greenhill.

 In a free-market environment, not even a good knock can keep aggressive people
 from responding to opportunities. The financial sector will look very different in
 ten years from what it was a year ago - and that won't be all bad.

 * * *

 I find that I often end with a quote from Warren Buffett, and often it's the same one:

 The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the
 prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs.

 But now I want to talk about the flip side: When others conduct their affairs with
 excessive negativism, it's worth being positive. When others love 'em, we should hate
 'em. But when others hate 'em, we can love 'em.

 In "The Tide Goes Out" in March, I listed the stages of both bull and bear markets. I said
 that in the terminal third stage of a bull market, everyone is convinced things will get
 better forever. The folly of joining that consensus is obvious; people who invest thinking
 there'll never be anything to worry about are sure to get hurt.

 In the third stage of a bear market, on the other hand, everyone agrees things can only get
 worse. The risk in that - in terms of opportunity costs, or forgone profits - is equally
 clear. There's no doubt in my mind that the bear market reached the third stage
 last week. That doesn't mean it can't decline further, or that a bull market's about
 to start. But it does mean the negatives are on the table, optimism is thoroughly
 lacking, and the greater long-term risk probably lies in not investing.

 The excesses, mistakes and foolishness of the 2003-2007 upward leg of the cycle were
 the greatest I've ever witnessed. So has been the resulting panic. The damage that's
 been done to security prices may be enough to correct for those excesses - or too much or
 too little. But certainly it's a good time to pick among the rubble.

 * * *

 I want to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank my Oaktree colleagues for
 their ongoing steadfastness. There's a simple formula for taking maximum advantage
 of opportunities in a collapsing market:

 (a) have a firm, well-reasoned estimate of an asset's intrinsic value;
 (b) recognize when the asset's price falls below its value, and buy;
 (c) average down if the price goes lower; and
 (d) be right about the value.

 Acumen and resolve are both essential. My colleagues continue to show both. In recent
 weeks our list of purchases has been long most days, and our list of sales almost non-
 existent. Where there's cash we've put a lot to work, averaging down aggressively, in
 what we think are great buys.

 I also want to thank our clients for trusting us and sticking with us. As Bruce Karsh
 and I wrote ten days ago in a memo to investors in our Opportunities Funds for
 distressed debt, ". . . in a few years we'll reminisce together about how easy it was to
 take advantage of the bargains of 2008-09." Whether or not the worst of the crisis is
 now truly behind us, I continue to feel that way.


Memo: Volatility + Leverage = Dynamite.

Nearly fifteen years ago, in April 1994 - at a time when absolutely no one was reading
 my memos - I published one called "Risk in Today's Markets Revisited." That's when I
 first proposed the formula shown above. I recycled it in "Genius Isn't Enough," on the
 subject of Long-Term Capital Management (October 1998).

 The last few years have provided a great demonstration of how dangerous it can be to
 combine leverage with risky assets, and that's the subject of this memo. It'll also pick up
 on some ideas from my last memo, "The Limits to Negativism."

 My memo "Plan B" on the bailout proposal went out on September 24, and as I lay in bed
 later that night, I realized that I hadn't taken one part of it nearly far enough. In
 discussing a prime cause of the credit crisis, I wrote the following:

 I'll keep it simple. Suppose you have $1 million in equity capital. You
 borrow $29 million and buy $30 million of mortgage loans. Twenty
 percent (or $6 million) of the mortgages go into default, and the recovery
 on them turns out to be only two-thirds ($4 million). Thus you've lost $2
 million . . . your equity capital twice over. Now you have equity capital of
 minus $1 million, with assets of $28 million and debt of $29 million.
 Everyone realizes that there'll be nothing left for the people who're last in
 line to withdraw their money, so there's a run on the bank. And you slide
 into bankruptcy.

 That's true as far as it goes, but I'm going to devote this memo to things which could
 have followed that paragraph.

 The Problem at Financial Institutions
 U

 It's no coincidence that today's financial crisis was kicked off at highly leveraged
 banks and investment banks. The paragraph above shows why that's true, and why the
 problem is as big as it is. As I wrote in "Plan B":

 Because of the high regard in which financial institutions were held;
 because of the implied government backing of Fannie Mae and Freddie
 Mac; and because permissible leverage increased over time, financial
 institutions' equity capital was permitted to become highly inadequate
 given the riskiness of the assets they held. Or perhaps I should say

 institutions took on too many risky assets given the limitations of their
 equity capital. That, in a nutshell, is why institutions have disappeared.

 So what exactly did these institutions do wrong? Here are a few examples, using Bank
 X, with $10 billion of capital, to illustrate:

 Bank X uses leverage to buy $100 billion of triple-A mortgage-related debt, under the
 assumption that it can't lose more than 1%. Instead, home prices decline nationwide,
 causing it to write down its holdings by 10%, or $10 billion. Its capital is gone.

 Alternatively (but in fact probably simultaneously), Bank X sells Hedge Fund G $10
 billion of credit default swaps on the bonds of Company A, and it buys $10 billion of
 the same credit protection from Investment Bank H. Company A goes bankrupt, and
 Bank X pays Hedge Fund G $10 billion. But Investment Bank H goes bankrupt, too,
 so Bank X can't collect the $10 billion it's due. Its capital is gone.

 Bank X lends $50 billion to Hedge Fund P with equity of $10 billion, which then
 buys $60 billion of securities. The value of the fund's portfolio falls to $50 billion;
 the bank sends a margin call; no additional collateral can be posted; so the bank
 seizes and sells out the portfolio. But in the downward-spiraling market, the bank
 only realizes $40 billion. Its capital is gone.

 Hedge Fund Q also borrowed to buy securities. When Hedge Fund P got its margin
 call and its portfolio was sold out, that forced securities prices downward. So Fund Q
 - which holds many of the same positions - also receives a margin call, perpetuating
 the downward spiral and bringing more losses to more institutions.

 All of these scenarios, and many others, are connected by a common thread: the
 combination of leverage and illusory safety, which allowed institutions to take on too
 much risk for the amount of capital they had.

 First, it should be clear from the above that the amount of borrowed money -
 leverage - that it's prudent to use is purely a function of the riskiness and volatility
 of the assets it's used to purchase. The more stable the assets, the more leverage it's
 safe to use. Riskier assets, less leverage. It's that simple.

 One of the main reasons for the problem today at financial institutions is that they
 underestimated the risk inherent in assets such as home mortgages and, as a result,
 bought too much mortgage-backed paper with too much borrowed money.

 Let's go back to the paragraph on page one. Here it is again:

 I'll keep it simple. Suppose you have $1 million in equity capital. You
 borrow $29 million and buy $30 million of mortgage loans. Twenty
 percent (or $6 million) of the mortgages go into default, and the recovery
 on them turns out to be only two-thirds ($4 million). Thus you've lost $2

 million . . . your equity capital twice over. Now you have equity capital of
 minus $1 million, with assets of $28 million and debt of $29 million.
 Everyone realizes that there'll be nothing left for the people who're last in
 line to withdraw their money, so there's a run on the bank. And you slide
 into bankruptcy.

 Suppose you set up your leveraged portfolio as described but only 2% of your mortgage
 holdings go bad, not 20%. Then, you only lose $200,000 (not $2 million) of your $1
 million of equity, and you're still solvent. Or suppose 20% of your mortgages default as
 in the original example, but you only levered up ten times, not 30. You lose the same
 6.7% of your assets, but based on $10 million, so it's just $670,000, or two-thirds of your
 equity. You're still alive. The problem lies entirely in the fact that the institutions
 combined highly risky assets with a large amount of leverage.

 By now, everyone recognizes (a) how silly it was for the financial modelers to be so sure
 there couldn't be a nationwide drop in home prices (they felt that way because there
 never had been one - but did their data include the Depression?) and (b) the terrible job
 the agencies did of rating mortgage-related securities. So the risk was underestimated,
 permitting the leverage to become excessive: end of story. Reason number one for
 today's problem, then, is the mismatch institutions turned out to have made between
 asset risk and leverage.

 The second reason is that, given the degree by which mortgage defaults have
 exceeded expectations, no one feels like taking a chance on how bad things will get.
 Everyone agrees it'll be bad, but no one can say how bad.

 As I said in October in "The Limits to Negativism," when things are going well, no
 assumption is too optimistic to be accepted. But when things turn down, none seems too
 pessimistic. Today, with the ability to lose money on mortgages having been
 demonstrated so painfully, investors consider themselves unable to say where the losses
 will stop.

 So if a highly leveraged financial institution has significant mortgage holdings, few
 people are willing to risk money in the belief that the losses will be bearable. If a
 financial institution has book equity of $100 million and $500 million of mortgage assets,
 no one will grant that future losses will be less than $100 million - that is, that it'll
 remain solvent. Maybe the writedowns will be $100 million. Or $300 million. Or $500
 million. There's no assumption too negative. As a result, investors will just keep their
 money in their pockets.

 A few sovereign wealth funds and others jumped in a year ago, and based on results so
 far, it looks like they acted too soon. In July, Goldman Sachs reported that 52 banks had
 raised capital and the providers of that capital were underwater at 50 of them, by an
 average of 45%. Certainly things are much worse now.

 Most people are behaving as if there's no such thing as investing safely in a financial
 institution. This widespread belief has the ability to greatly delay the restoration of
 faith, capital and viability. Peter Bernstein put it succinctly in The New York Times of
 September 28. (Peter's one of the very wisest men around, in part because he's one of
 the few who can talk about the Depression from experience. I recommend his op-ed
 piece, "What's Free About Free Enterprise?")

 This time around, assets are evidently so rotten in so many places that no
 financial institution wants to risk doing business with any other financial
 institution without a government backstop.

 That's the reason why no buyer could be found for Lehman Brothers over the weekend
 preceding its bankruptcy. No one could assess its assets and get comfortable regarding
 the status of its highly levered net worth, so everyone required a government backstop . . .
 which wasn't forthcoming.

 The Right Level of Leverage
 U

 Although I communicate primarily in words, I tend to think a lot in pictures - certainly
 more than in numbers. My concept of appropriate leverage can easily be demonstrated
 through a few diagrams. I'm going to overlook the differences between accounting
 value, market value and economic value and confuse the terms. But I think you'll get the
 idea.

 The drawings below show the value of companies of different types. Due to the
 variability of their earnings, the values fluctuate differently over time.

 Here's a financial structure, except with the equity above the debt, not below as it would
 be on a balance sheet:

 Now let's combine the two concepts. The bottom line is that in order for a company to
 avoid insolvency, its financial structure has to be such that its value won't fall through the
 equity and into the debt. In naïve and far-from-technically correct terms, when the
 amount of debt exceeds the value of the company, it's insolvent, as suggested below.

 What the following doodles illustrate is that for every level of riskiness and volatility,
 there's an appropriate limit on leverage in the capital structure.

 During the first leveraged buyout boom in the late 1970s and the 1980s, it was a
 watchword that they should be done only with stable companies. But in bullish
 times, rules like that are forgotten or ignored, and we get buyouts of companies in
 cyclical industries like semiconductors or autos.

 Extremely leveraged companies have existed for more than a century. They're called
 utilities. Because their profits are regulated by public commissions and fixed as a
 percentage of their stable asset bases, they've been extremely dependable. This shows
 that high leverage isn't necessarily risky, just the wrong level of leverage given the
 company's stability.

 It can be safe for life insurance companies to take risk on limited capital, because their
 operations are steady and their risks can be anticipated. They know everyone will die,
 and roughly when (on average). But if a firm like MBIA was going to guarantee
 mortgage securities, it should have recognized their instability and unpredictability and
 limited its leverage. The insurance industry's way of saying that is that its capital should
 have been higher as a percentage of the risks assumed. MBIA insured $75 billion of
 residential and commercial mortgage paper on the basis of total capital - not capital
 devoted to its insuring mortgage securities, but total capital - of only $3 billion. Did
 anyone worry about the possibility that 5% of the mortgages would default?

 Leverage is always seductive. If you have $1 million of capital and write $25 million of
 insurance at a 1% annual premium, you bring in $250,000 of premiums, for a 25% return
 on capital (before losses and expenses). But why not write $50 million of insurance and
 bring in $500,000? The answer is that policy losses might exceed 2% of the insurance
 written, in which case your losses would be greater than the capital you have to pay them
 with . . . and you might be insolvent. But in order to resist using maximum available
 leverage, you need discipline and an appreciation for the risks involved. In recent
 years, few firms had both.

 U Why Mortgages?

 Why is it residential mortgage-related paper that set off the process endangering our
 institutions? Why not high yield bonds or leveraged loans or even equities? One reason,
 of course, is the sheer size of the residential mortgage-related securities market: $11
 trillion. But there are two others.

 The first is the inability to value the underlying collateral. I feel comfortable when
 Oaktree's analysts value the debt or equity of a cash-flow-producing company. To the
 extent an asset produces a stream of cash flows, and assuming they're somewhat
 predictable, the asset can reasonably be valued. But assets that don't produce cash flows
 can't be valued as readily (this has been a regular theme of mine of late).

 What's a barrel of oil worth? $33 in January 2004, $147 in mid-2008, or $42 earlier this
 month? Which price was "right"? All of them? Or none of them? We all know about

 the things that will influence the price of oil, such as finite supply, growing demand, and
 the unreliability of some of the producing nations. But what do those factors make it
 worth? No one can convert these intangibles into a fair price. That's why, a few
 months ago at $147, we were seeing predictions of $200 oil. And now, with the price
 down two-thirds, there's talk of $25.

 The same is true of commodities, gold, currencies, art and diamonds. And houses.
 What's a house worth? What it cost to build? What it would cost to replace today?
 What it last sold for? What the one next door sold for? The amount that was
 borrowed against it? (Certainly not.) Some multiple of what it could be rented for?
 What about when there are no renters? The answer is "none of these." On a given
 day, houses - and all of the things listed just above - are worth only what someone
 will pay for them. Well, that's true in the short run for corporate securities, too, as
 we've seen in the last few months. But in the long run, you can expect security prices to
 gravitate toward the discounted present value of their future cash flows. There's no such
 lodestone for houses.

 Think about one of the biggest jokes, the home appraisal. If a house doesn't have a
 "value," what do mortgage appraisers do? They research recent sales of similar houses
 nearby and apply those values on a per-square-foot basis. But such an appraisal
 obviously says nothing about what a house will bring after being repossessed a few years
 later.

 Nevertheless, in recent years, a purchase price of $X, supported by an appraisal of $X,
 was used to justify lending 95% of $X - or maybe 100% or 105% - when a home was
 bought or refinanced. No wonder homes valued in the biggest boom in history have
 turned out to be unreliable collateral.

 Second, these overrated mortgages were packaged into the most alchemical and
 fantastic leveraged structures. It is these, not mortgages themselves, that have
 jeopardized our institutions. There was a limited market for whole mortgage loans;
 they were considered a specialist market entailing risk and requiring expertise. But
 supposedly those worries would be obviated if one bought the debt of structured entities
 that invested in residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS).

 First question: where did the risk go? We were told it disappeared thanks to the magic of
 structuring, tranching and diversifying, permitting vast amounts of leverage to be applied
 safely. Second question: how reliable was the diversification? Answer: again we were
 told, highly reliable; there had never been a national decline in home prices, so mortgages
 could be considered uncorrelated with each other. The performance of a mortgage on a
 house in Detroit would be unaffected by what went on in Florida or California. (Well, so
 much for what we were told.)

 The institutions' writedowns generally are in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), debt
 issued by special-purpose entities that borrowed huge amounts relative to their equity in
 order to purchase mortgage-related securities. As described earlier, underestimated risk

 led to the use of unwise amounts of leverage. But interestingly, the key losses aren't in
 the riskier junior tranches of CDO debt, about which there was some leeriness. Rather,
 they're in the triple-A-rated tranches. It's to buy those tranches that our leading
 institutions took on too much leverage. Once again, greatly underestimated risk led to
 great leverage and thus great losses.

 What did you need to steer clear of CDO debt? Computers, sophisticated programs
 and exceptional analysis? Genius? No: skepticism and common sense. In RMBS,
 CDOs and CDO-squareds (entities that borrowed to buy CDO debt), 90% or so of their
 capital structure was rated higher than the underlying collateral, all based on the
 linchpin assumption that mortgages were uncorrelated. That's all you had to know.

 How good a piece of collateral is a subprime mortgage covering 100% of the
 purchase price of a house bought in a soaring market by an applicant who'll pay a
 higher interest rate to be able to skip documenting income or employment? That's
 not a secured loan; it's an option on future appreciation. If the house goes up in price, the
 buyer makes the mortgage payments and continues to own it. If it goes down, the buyer
 walks away, in which case the lender gains ownership of a house worth less than the
 amount loaned against it. Thus the viability of the mortgages was entirely dependent on
 continued home price appreciation.

 Given the above, what was the credit quality of subprime mortgages? I'd say double-B at
 best. (I'd much rather buy even the single-B "junk bonds" of profitable companies that
 we've held over the last 30 years than this inflated "home option" paper.) And yet, in a
 typical CDO, 80% of the debt was rated triple-A and 97% was rated investment grade
 (triple-B or better). Those high ratings made CDO debt very attractive to financial
 institutions that were able to borrow cheaply to buy high-rated assets, satisfying the strict
 rules regarding the "quality" of their portfolio holdings.

 Financial engineers and investment bankers took unreliable collateral and packaged
 it into highly leveraged structures supporting debt that was rated high enough to
 attract financial institutions. What a superb example of the imprudent use of
 leverage. And what a simple explanation of how our highly leveraged institutions got
 into trouble.

 How Bad is Bad?
 U

 One of the prime lessons that must be learned from this experience is that in
 determining how much leverage to put on, you'd better make generous assumptions
 about how risky your assets might turn out to be.

 The example in the paragraph on page one demonstrates the role of risk in the equation.
 The more your assets are prone to permanent loss, the less leverage you should employ.
 But it's also important to recognize the role of volatility. Even if losses aren't permanent,
 a downward fluctuation can bring risk of ruin if a portfolio is highly leveraged and (a) the

 lenders can cut off credit, (b) investors can be frightened into withdrawing their equity, or
 (c) the violation of regulatory or contractual standards can trigger forced selling.

 The problem is that extreme volatility and loss surface only infrequently. And as
 time passes without that happening, it appears more and more likely that it'll never
 happen - that assumptions regarding risk were too conservative. Thus it becomes
 tempting to relax rules and increase leverage. And often this is done just before the risk
 finally rears its head. As Nassim Nicholas Taleb wrote in Fooled by Randomness:

 Reality is far more vicious than Russian roulette. First, it delivers the fatal
 bullet rather infrequently, like a revolver that would have hundreds, even
 thousands of chambers instead of six. After a few dozen tries, one forgets
 about the existence of a bullet, under a numbing false sense of security . . .
 Second, unlike a well-defined precise game like Russian roulette, where
 the risks are visible to anyone capable of multiplying and dividing by six,
 one does not observe the barrel of reality. . . . One is thus capable of
 unwittingly playing Russian roulette - and calling it by some alter-
 native "low risk" name. (p. 28; emphasis added)

 The financial institutions played a high-risk game thinking it was a low-risk game,
 all because their assumptions on losses and volatility were too low. We'd be
 watching an entirely different picture if only they'd said, "This stuff is potentially risky.
 Since home prices have gone up so much and mortgages have been available so easily,
 there just might be widespread declines in home prices this time. So we're only going to
 lever up half as much as past performance might suggest."

 It's easy to say they should have made more conservative assumptions. But how
 conservative? You can't run a business on the basis of worst-case assumptions. You
 wouldn't be able to do anything. And anyway, a "worst-case assumption" is really a
 misnomer; there's no such thing, short of a total loss. Now we know the quants shouldn't
 have assumed there couldn't be a nationwide decline in home prices. But once you grant
 that such a decline can happen - for the first time - what extent should you prepare for?
 Two percent? Ten? Fifty?

 One of my favorite adages concerns the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the
 stream that was five feet deep on average. It's not enough to survive in the investment
 world on average; you have to survive every moment. The unusual turbulence of the last
 two years - and especially the last three months - made it possible for that six-foot-tall
 man to drown in a stream that was two feet deep on average. Should the possibility of
 U

 today's events have been anticipated? It's hard to say it should have been. And yet,
 it's incumbent upon investors to prepare for adversity. The juxtaposition of these
 sentences introduces an interesting conundrum.

 Consider these tales from the front lines:

 There had never been a national decline in home prices, but now the Case-Shiller
 index is down 26% from its peak in July 2006, according to the Financial Times of
 November 29.

 In my twenty-nine previous years with high yield bonds, including four when more
 than 10% of all outstanding bonds defaulted, the index's worst yearly decline was
 7%. But in 2008, it's down 30% (even though the last-twelve-months' default rate is
 only about 3%).

 Performing bank loans never traded much below par in the past, and holders received
 very substantial recoveries on any that defaulted. Now, even though there have been
 few defaults, the price of the average loan is in the 60s.

 The headlines are full of entities that have seen massive losses, and perhaps meltdowns,
 because they bought assets using leverage. Going back to the diagrams on pages 4-5,
 these investors put on leverage that might have been appropriate with moderate-volatility
 assets and ran into the greatest volatility ever seen. It's easy to say they made a
 mistake. But is it reasonable to expect them to have girded for unique events?

 If every portfolio was required to be able to withstand declines on the scale we've
 witnessed this year, it's possible no leverage would ever be used. Is that a
 reasonable reaction? (In fact, it's possible that no one would ever invest in these
 asset classes, even on an unlevered basis.)

 In all aspects of our lives, we base our decisions on what we think probably will
 happen. And, in turn, we base that to a great extent on what usually happened in
 the past. We expect results to be close to the norm (A) most of the time, but we know
 it's not unusual to see outcomes that are better or worse (B). Although we should bear in
 mind that, once in a while, a result will be outside the usual range (C), we tend to forget
 about the potential for outliers. And importantly, as illustrated by recent events, we
 rarely consider outcomes that have happened only once a century . . . or never (D).

 Even if we realize that unusual, unlikely things can happen, in order to act we make
 reasoned decisions and knowingly accept that risk when well paid to do so. Once in a
 while, a "black swan" will materialize. But if in the future we always said, "We can't do
 such-and-such, because we could see a repeat of 2007-08," we'd be frozen in inaction.

 So in most things, you can't prepare for the worst case. It should suffice to be
 prepared for once-in-a-generation events. But a generation isn't forever, and there will
 be times when that standard is exceeded. What do you do about that? I've mused in the
 past about how much one should devote to preparing for the unlikely disaster.
 Among other things, the events of 2007-08 prove there's no easy answer.

 Are You Tall Enough to Use Leverage?
 U

 Clearly it's difficult to always use the right amount of leverage, because it's difficult to
 be sure you're allowing sufficiently for risk. Leverage should only be used on the basis
 of demonstrably cautious assumptions. And it should be noted that if you're doing
 something novel, unproven, risky, volatile or potentially life-threatening, you
 shouldn't seek to maximize returns. Instead, err on the side of caution. The key to
 survival lies in what Warren Buffett constantly harps on: margin of safety. Using
 100% of the leverage one's assets might justify is often incompatible with assuring
 survival when adverse outcomes materialize.

 Leverage is neither good nor bad in and of itself. In the right amount, applied to the right
 assets, it's good. When used to excess given the underlying assets, it's bad. It doesn't
 add value; it merely magnifies both good and bad outcomes. So leverage shouldn't be
 treated as a silver bullet or magic solution. It's a tool that can be used wisely or
 unwisely.

 Our attitude at Oaktree is that it can be wise to use leverage to take advantage of
 high offered returns and excessive risk premiums, but it's unwise to use it to try to
 turn low offered returns into high ones, as was done often in 2003-07.

 Once leverage is combined with risky or volatile assets, it can lead to unbearable losses.
 Thus leverage should be used in prudent amounts, to finance the right assets, and with a
 great deal of respect. And it's better used in the trough of the cycle than after a long run
 of appreciation. Bottom line: handle with care.

 * * *

 I never want to give the impression that doing the things I discuss is easy, or that Oaktree
 always gets it right. This memo calls on investors to gauge risk and use only appropriate
 leverage. At Oaktree we assess fundamental riskiness and look to history for how
 markets might behave, and we heavily emphasize trying to build in sufficient room for

 error. But history isn't a perfect guide. While we've made no use of leverage in the vast
 majority of our investment activities, three of our evergreen funds did borrow to buy
 bank loans: the senior-most debt of companies, which in the past always has traded
 around par. Another used it to buy low-priced Japanese small-cap stocks. The
 companies generally are doing fine, but the prices of their loans and equities have
 collapsed under current market conditions, causing the funds to suffer. This shows how
 tough it is to prepare for all eventualities . . . in other words, to know in advance
 how bad is bad. So I apologize if I ever come across as holier-than-thou. We've tried to
 use leverage only when it's wise, but no one's perfect. Certainly not us.

 * * *

 The financial markets have delivered a lifetime of lessons in just the last five years.
 Some of the most important ones center around the use and abuse of leverage.

 Leverage doesn't add value or make an investment better. Like everything else in
 the investment world other than pure skill, leverage is a two-edged sword - in fact,
 probably the ultimate two-edged sword. It helps when you're right and hurts when
 you're wrong.

 The riskier the underlying assets, the less leverage should be used to buy them.
 Conservative assumptions on this subject will keep you from maximizing gains but
 possibly save your financial life in bad times.

 A levered entity can be caught up in a downward spiral of asset price declines,
 market-value tests, margin calls and forced selling. Thus, in addition to thinking
 about the right amount of leverage, it's important to note that there are two different
 kinds: permanent leverage, with its magnifying effect, and leverage which can be
 withdrawn, which can introduce collateral tests and the risk of ruin. Both should be
 considered independently. Leverage achieved with secure capital isn't nearly as
 risky as situations where you are subject to margin calls or can't bar the door
 against capital withdrawals.

 Leverage was too easily accessed as recently as two years ago, and now it's virtually
 unavailable. And just as its use was often unwise a few years ago, this might be just
 the right time to employ some if you can get it . . . and if you can arrange things so
 you won't drown if the streambed dips ahead.