Memo: The Long View.

Many of my memos over the last year and a half have touched on the developments in
 2003-07 that brought on the current financial crisis. By now, everyone understands the
 role of innovation, risk tolerance and leverage in the boom that led to the bust, so I think
 it's now time to look back considerably further.

 The Importance of Cycles

 In my opinion, there are two key concepts that investors must master: value and
 cycles. For each asset you're considering, you must have a strongly held view of its
 intrinsic value. When its price is below that value, it's generally a buy. When its price is
 higher, it's a sell. In a nutshell, that's value investing.

 But values aren't fixed; they move in response to changes in the economic environment.
 Thus, cyclical considerations influence an asset's current value. Value depends on
 earnings, for example, and earnings are shaped by the economic cycle and the price being
 charged for liquidity.

 Further, security prices are greatly affected by investor behavior; thus we can be aided in
 investing safely by understanding where we stand in terms of the market cycle. What's
 going on in terms of investor psychology, and how does it tell us to act in the short run?
 We want to buy when prices seem attractive. But if investors are giddy and optimism is
 rampant, we have to consider whether a better buying opportunity mightn't come along
 later.

 The Lessons - and Limits - of Experience

 I feel good about having been aware of where we stood in terms of the market cycle and
 investor behavior over the last four or five years. There were memos that talked about
 low prospective returns and meager risk premiums ("Risk and Return Today," October
 2004), repetition of past mistakes ("There They Go Again," May 2005), investor
 inattention to warning signs ("Hindsight First, Please," October 2005), and the rising
 willingness to accept lower returns and less safety ("The Race to the Bottom," February
 2007). Importantly, these views were factored into Oaktree's actions, enabling us to
 make some good decisions on behalf of our clients.

 I recite these successes not for the purpose of self-congratulation, but to point out
 that while I was highly aware of the short-term cycle, I - like almost everyone else, it
 seems - failed to fully appreciate the big-picture peril implied by the level to which
 the cycle had risen. In short, I thought 2003-07 was like the other cycles I've lived
 through, just more so. I missed the fact that it was different not only in degree, but
 also in kind.

 This episode is different because over the preceding decades, the accretion of
 progressively higher highs and higher lows - in a large number of phenomena -
 brought us to a macro-high that hadn't been witnessed for many years and held
 great danger . . . as we're seeing.

 Forty years have passed since I first served as a summer trainee in First National City
 Bank's Investment Research Department. My experience in seeing investors punished in
 1969-70, 1973-74, 1977, 1981, 1987, 1990, 1994 and 2000-02 is what enabled me to
 detect the excesses of 2003-07. But since I didn't live through the Great Depression or
 work through the full run-up to the painful 1970s, I didn't have the perspective needed to
 understand where those relatively short cycles of boom/bust/recovery were taking us.

 Long-Term Trends

 Looking back over my career, it's clear that the securities markets have been riding a
 number of salutary secular trends ("secular," as in "of or relating to a long term of
 indefinite duration" per Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary). Some of these actually
 began at the end of World War II and ran through 2007, for a total of more than six
 decades.

 Macro Environment - The period following World War II was one of American
 dominance and prosperity. The U.S. benefited from the "baby boom," the fact that our
 shores hadn't been reached by the war, and the effective transition of our factories and
 labor force to peacetime use. We were aided by a modern infrastructure, strong
 education and healthcare systems, and gains in technology.

 Corporate Growth - The last sixty years have seen strong growth in corporations and
 their profits. Especially in the early part of this period, the U.S. developed superior
 products, produced them very efficiently and found ready markets in the rest of the
 world. Gains in automation, information technology, management practices and
 productivity all contributed. Growth in sales was supported by strong consumer demand.

 The Borrowing Mentality - As further discussed below, advances in financing - and
 greater acceptance of the use of debt - allowed companies to augment their growth rates
 and returns on capital and allowed consumers to increase consumption. In fact, over the
 last several decades, economic units of all sorts in the U.S. increased their use of debt.
 Consumers, businesses, governments and investors all wanted to borrow more, and the
 financial services industry developed products to accommodate them. Spending and

 investment was facilitated through the extension of credit at all levels, contributing to
 economic expansion but also sowing the seeds for the current situation.

 Popularization of Investing - Back in 1968, working in investment management was no
 different from entering banking or insurance. Investing wasn't the high-profile area it's
 been the last two decades. "Famous investor" was an oxymoron; none were household
 names, like Warren Buffett, George Soros and Peter Lynch would become. Investment
 firms weren't the B-school employer of choice, and investment managers didn't dominate
 magazine covers and the top income brackets. But over the last forty years, increased
 attention was paid to equities, mutual funds, hedge funds and alternative niche markets.
 Even homes came to be viewed as investment vehicles.

 Investor Psychology - Attitudes morphed over time. Instead of a generation scarred by
 the Great Depression, people became increasingly confident, optimistic and venturesome.
 Experience convinced prospective investors that stocks could be counted on for high
 returns. In the last few decades, there've been times when people concluded the business
 cycle had been tamed. During Alan Greenspan's reign, people came to believe
 inordinately in his ability to keep the economy growing steadily. And most recently,
 people swallowed the canard that innovation, financial engineering and risk modeling
 could take the uncertainty out of investing.

 The developments enumerated above constituted a strong tailwind behind the economy
 and the markets over the last several decades, and they produced a long-term secular
 uptrend.

 Short-Term Cycles

 Despite the underlying uptrend, there's been no straight line. The economy and markets
 were punctuated every few years by cyclical bouts of short-term fluctuation. Cycles
 around the trend line made for frequent ups and downs. Most were relatively small and
 brief, but in the 1970s, economic stagnation set in, inflation reached 16%, the average
 stock lost almost half its value in two years, and Business Week magazine ran a cover
 story trumpeting "The Death of Equities." No, my forty years haven't been all wine and
 roses.

 From time to time we saw better economies and worse - slowdown and prosperity,
 recession and recovery. Markets, too, rose and fell. These fluctuations were attributable
 to normal economic cycles and to exogenous developments (such as the oil embargo in
 1973 and the emerging market crisis in 1998). The S&P 500 had a few down years in the
 period from 1975 to 1999, but none in which it lost more than 7.5%. On the upside,
 however, 16 of those 25 years showed returns above 15%, and seven times the annual
 gain exceeded 30%.

 Despite the ups and downs, investors profited overall, investing became a national
 pursuit, and America's richest man got that way by buying common stocks and whole
 companies. A serious general uptrend was underway, reaching its zenith in 2007.

 The Rest of the Elephant

 There's an old story about a group of blind men walking down the road in India who
 come upon an elephant. Each one touches a different part of the elephant - the trunk, the
 leg, the tail or the ear - and comes up with a different explanation of what he'd
 encountered - a tree, a reed, a palm leaf - based on the small part to which he was
 exposed. We are those blind men. Even if we have a good understanding of the
 events we witness, we don't easily gain the overall view needed to put them together.
 Up to the time we see the whole in action, our knowledge is limited to the parts
 we've touched.

 Until mid-2007, my experience as a money manager had been limited to part of the long-
 term story. Perhaps what looked like an underlying long-term uptrend should have
 been viewed instead as the positive part of a long-term cycle incorporating downs as
 well as ups. Only when you step back from the beast can you gauge its full proportions.

 Cycles in Long-Term Trends

 The main thing I want to discuss in this memo is my realization that there are cycles
 in the long-term trend, not just short-term cycles around it, and we've been living
 through the positive phase of a big one.

 Over the last few decades, investors have reacted to the generally positive economic
 environment by taking actions reflecting increased optimism and trust, as well as reduced
 caution and conservatism. In hindsight, we can see nearly uninterrupted growth in
 behavior that (a) relied on a continuation of the favorable underlying trends and
 thus (b) can be described as increasingly bullish.

 Looking for just one word, I'd say there was a steady rise in "willingness." Over my
 forty years in business - but probably carrying on from the end of the World War II - I
 believe investors grew increasingly willing . . .

 to forget old-fashioned concepts like "saving for a rainy day," fiduciary responsibility
 and preservation of capital,
 to pursue capital appreciation rather than settle for more modest, steady income,
 to invest on the basis of growth potential rather than existing value,
 to trust that stocks would provide superior performance (see separate section below),
 to drastically reduce the representation of high grade bonds in portfolios,
 to move away from stocks and bonds and toward more exotic investments,
 to believe that diversification into risky assets would increase return more than risk,
 to pursue profit through proprietary investing if you were a bank or investment bank,
 and for endowments to try to be "more like Yale,"
 to assume that markets would function smoothly even in tough times,
 to trust in markets to solve all problems, induce constructive behavior and efficiently
 allocate capital, allowing regulation to be reduced,
 to accept that, thanks to market efficiency, asset prices are always "right,"
 to trust in the Fed, Alan Greenspan and the ability to restrain cycles,
 to rely on quants and financial engineers, spreadsheets and risk modeling,
 to feel confident they had a good handle on what the future held,
 to believe in alpha, absolute return, widespread genius among money managers, free
 lunches, and superior asset classes regardless of how they're priced,
 to revere and trust money managers sporting good returns,
 to share investment gains with money managers, perhaps in ways that motivated them
 to take increased risk in pursuit of short-term profits,
 to view houses, art, jewelry and collectibles as financial assets,
 to believe that real estate prices couldn't go down,
 to treat investing as a national pastime via TV, magazines and books,
 to "buy the dips,"
 to accept new paradigms,
 to relax diligence standards and forget to question skeptically,

 to use past statistical averages - sometimes covering brief time periods - to
 gauge the safety of prospective investments,
 to partake in financial innovation and invest in things too complex or opaque to
 be understood,
 to believe that risk had been banished, most recently through securitization,
 tranching and decoupling,
 to forgo liquidity,
 to make increasing use of leverage (see separate section below),
 to finance investment activities with undependable capital: short-term
 borrowings and deposits, impermanent equity, and future cash receipts,
 to forget to worry and be risk-averse, and thus
 to accept additional risk at shrinking risk premiums.

 The "era of increasing willingness" carried many trends to higher highs. The last
 ten listed above were the prime ingredients giving rise to the current crisis.
 Together they produced an investment house of cards that was enormously
 dependent on continued prosperity, bullishness and easy money.

 Expansiveness

 In addition to "willingness," one of the most significant trends during the period
 under discussion has been a massive increase in "expansiveness," my new label for
 the desire to increase the ratio of activity to capital. If that sounds unfamiliar, the
 common term in America is "leverage," and in England it's "gearing."

 My last memo was on the subject of leverage and its major role in the crisis we're all
 experiencing. Today's problems are largely a function of the high levels of leverage
 employed in 2003-07, but those levels were just the apogee of a progression that spanned
 decades.

 Every business, government, non-profit organization or individual has a certain amount
 of equity capital, net worth or surplus. That capital, in turn, will support a certain level of
 activity: production and sales, lending, government action, charitable grants or
 consumption. But over the last several decades, if you wanted to do more of these
 things than your capital permitted, you could borrow capital from someone else.

 Over the course of my lifetime, there have been extraordinary changes in the extent of
 borrowing:

 Consumers - When I went off to college 45 years ago, I paid for purchases with
 checks or cash, and I saved up coins for the payphone. "Travel and entertainment"
 cards like American Express and Diners Club were available only to those with top
 credit ratings, and the masses lived without credit cards until Citibank introduced The
 Everything Card (now MasterCard) around 1967. In the old days, consumers who
 lived beyond their incomes were often described as being "in debt." We don't hear

 that term anymore, since people with unpaid credit card balances and consumer loans
 are the rule, not the exception. As a result, consumer credit outstanding grew 260
 times from 1947 to 2008, increasing from 4.2% of gross domestic product to 17.9%.
 (Federal Reserve data and Economagic)

 Homeowners - In the old days, homebuyers, having saved for years, usually put
 down 20% of the cost of a home and borrowed the rest through a thirty-year fixed-
 rate mortgage. They made payments until that debt was eliminated, and they held
 mortgage-burning parties to celebrate the event, which would enable them to retire
 mortgage-free. Only people who were "in trouble" took out second mortgages,
 perhaps to meet emergency expenses. All of these concepts went out the window in
 recent times, when down payments, fixed rates and paid-off mortgages became things
 of the past, replaced by 100% financing, adjustable rates, teasers and serial
 refinancings. Second mortgages were relabeled "home equity loans," little miracles
 that would let people draw out the inevitable appreciation in their homes, spend it,
 and end up with the same home and larger payments - perhaps just as interest rates
 moved up or as the borrowers hoped to be able to retire.

 Corporations - "In the beginning," corporate borrowing was most undemocratic.
 Prior to the late 1970s, only firms with investment-grade credit ratings of triple-B or
 better could publicly issue bonds. But that changed with the introduction of high
 yield bonds, an innovation permitting low-rated issuers to borrow at high interest
 rates. Before the advent of high yield bonds, companies could be acquired only by
 companies bigger than themselves. But with high yield bonds, small firms and even
 wealthy individuals could borrow enough to acquire corporate giants. This created
 the leveraged buyout industry. In recent years, not only was debt added to capital
 structures (particularly through buyouts), but equity was subtracted. Buyout
 companies used borrowed funds to dividend out their owners' equity and provide
 quick profits, and non-buyout companies bought back their shares, often using
 borrowed money. These activities substituted debt for equity in companies' capital
 structures, levering up their results and reducing their margin for error. In the current
 credit crisis, this has led to large-scale capital destruction.

 Financial Institutions - Over the decades in question, banks and investment banks
 moved away from working for interest, fees and commissions as lenders, advisers,
 brokers and agents. Instead, they went increasingly into positioning (buying or
 selling blocks of stock to accommodate clients when the market wouldn't take that
 side of a trade), proprietary trading (making investments for their own accounts, not
 on behalf of clients), and creating derivatives (sometimes ending up with a holding),
 all on the basis of increased leverage. "In 1980, bank indebtedness was equivalent to
 21 percent of U.S. gross domestic product. In 2007 the figure was 116 percent. . . . It
 was not unusual for investment banks' balance sheets to be as much as 20 or 30 times
 larger than their capital, thanks in large part to a 2004 rule change by the Securities
 and Exchange Commission that exempted the five largest of those banks from the
 regulation that had capped their debt-to-capital ratio at 12 to 1." (Vanity Fair,

 Governments - Similarly, governments at all levels learned increasingly to spend
 borrowed money in addition to their revenues. Federal, state and local debt ballooned
 to facilitate both capital projects (reasonably) and deficit spending (less reasonably).
 The Federal debt grew from $1 trillion in 1980 to $11 trillion today. How? In 2003
 and 2004, for example, the government spent $1.42 per $1 of income taxes. In this
 way, the U.S. became a debtor nation, dependent on bond buyers - particularly from
 abroad - to let it spend beyond its means. Likewise, state and local debt grew from
 $1.19 trillion in 2000 to $1.85 trillion in 2005, an average increase of 9.2% per year.
 In an extreme example of unwise innovation, much of the issuance of muni bonds
 was made possible because weak issuers could obtain bond insurance; few
 prospective investors, however, looked into the financial strength of the insurers.

 Investors in General - Fifty years ago, the main way investors expanded their
 activities was through the use of "margin," borrowing from their brokers to buy stock.
 Initial margin for new purchases was strictly limited to 100% (e.g., at most you could
 buy $2 worth of stock for every $1 of equity in your account). But Wall Street
 proved increasingly creative, and in the current decade it came up with products "with
 the leverage inside." These made much more than 100% leverage available to
 investors without any explicit borrowing. Hedge and arbitrage funds, collateralized
 loan obligations, collateralized debt obligations, leveraged buyout funds, credit
 default swaps and other derivatives; all of these delivered participation in highly
 leveraged investments without requiring the end investor to use margin or take out
 loans. In what approached a joke, the prim limit on margin was maintained even as
 regulators declined to apply any limits or regulation to these other investment
 structures, despite their ability to provide almost infinite leverage.

 Institutional Investors - Given their tax-exempt status, pension funds and charitable
 and educational endowments can't borrow to increase their returns. But they can (and
 did) make use of some of the strategies listed above. Institutional investors also
 employed "portable alpha," overlaying hedge fund investments with index futures to
 simulate more-than-100%-invested positions, and they overcommitted to private
 equity partnerships to ensure their capital would be fully deployed.

 The use of borrowed money expanded at all levels over the last few decades. This
 occurred largely without changes in laws or institutions. Instead, the changes were in
 customs and attitudes, abetted by financial institutions' innovation of new products.

 Of all the investment adages I use, this one remains the most important: "What the
 wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end." Practices and innovations
 often move from exotic to mainstream to overdone, especially if they're initially
 successful. What early investors did safely, the latecomers tried in 2003-07 with
 excessive leverage applied to overpriced and often inappropriate assets. As I wrote
 in "It's All Good" (July 2007), leverage was the "ketchup" of this period, used to
 make unattractive underlying investments appear tasty. The results have been
 disastrous.

 Here's another way to put it, from The Wall Street Journal of November 24,

 When it comes to booms gone bust, "over-investment and over-
 speculation are often important; but they would have far less serious
 results were they not conducted with borrowed money."

 That statement wasn't made in reference to current events; that was Irving Fisher
 writing 76 years ago ("The Debt-Inflation Theory of Great Depressions," Econometrica,
 March 1933). Borrowed money lets economic units expand the scale of their activity.
 But it doesn't add value or make things better; it just makes gains bigger and losses more
 painful. There's an old saying in Las Vegas: "The more you bet, the more you win when
 you win." But they always forget to add ". . . and the more you lose when you lose."

 In one of those beautiful phrasings that demonstrate his mastery of language, Jim Grant
 of Grant's Interest Rate Observer has described liquidity and leverage as "money of the
 mind." By this he means they're intangible and ephemeral, not dependable like assets or
 equity capital. Someone may lend you money one day but refuse to renew your loan
 when it comes due. Thus, leverage is purely a function of the lender's mood. The
 free-and-easy lending of 2003-07 has turned into an extreme credit crunch, and the
 unavailability of credit is both the root and the hallmark of today's biggest problems.
 Those who expand the scope of their operations on the basis of borrowed money
 should always consider the possibility that lenders will change their mind.

 Use of Debt in the Corporate World

 Note three things regarding debt. First, all businesses borrow. Debt is used broadly to
 finance things ranging from inventories to capital investment. If companies had to wait
 to get paid by buyers before ordering new goods to sell, business would go much slower.
 And if all their capital had to be equity, capital would be much more costly and
 companies would be much smaller. Borrowing makes the business world go 'round.

 Second, debt is rarely repaid. Businesses rarely reduce their total indebtedness. Rather
 than being paid off, debt is simply rolled over. That makes the solvency of the borrowers
 contingent on the continuous availability of credit.

 Third, given that the yield curve normally slopes upward, short-term borrowing is
 almost always the least expensive. That's what led First National City Bank to invent
 commercial paper in the 1960s, enabling companies to borrow at short-term rates through
 short-dated paper that would be renewed every month or so. The upward slope of the
 yield curve encourages people to borrow short even when investing long, resulting in
 economic maximization when they're able to roll over their debts but disaster when they
 aren't. (The recent failure of "auction-rate preferreds" was a good example of the folly of
 trying to game the yield curve by financing for the long term at short-term rates.)

 Here's what follows from the above:

 Most companies have debt, not just those that have made acquisitions or built plants.
 Companies borrow in the normal course of business.
 Many companies have heavy short-term borrowings and thus the need to deal with
 substantial maturities in the period immediately ahead.
 With the capital markets closed, not only will growth be difficult to finance, but
 significant defaults may also arise due to a widespread inability to refinance.

 While I always hesitate to predict the future, I think there's a good chance the next year
 or so will be characterized by significant difficulty repaying and refinancing borrowings.
 It's worth noting in that context that "In November, there wasn't one sub-investment
 grade corporate bond issued, according to Reuters - the first such hiatus since March
 1991." (breakingviews.com, December 3)

 Attitudes Regarding Equities

 One of the biggest changes in the past century - fully visible only to those who already
 were adults several decades ago or who've read about it - took place in terms of attitudes
 towards equities (or what we used to call common stocks).

 Up until the middle of the last century, stocks were considered highly speculative, and
 bonds were the bedrock of most investment portfolios. Interestingly in that connection, it
 was reported recently that the S&P 500 now out-yields the 10-year Treasury for the first
 time in 50 years. Until the 1950s, equities always provided higher current yields . . .
 for the simple reason that they had to. People invested primarily for yield, and
 riskier securities - stocks - would attract buyers only if they promised higher yields
 than bonds.

 This changed in the second half of the 20th century:

 Common stock investing was popularized; I believe Charlie Merrill of Merrill Lynch
 deserves a lot of the credit for this.
 Prior to some pioneering computer work at the University of Chicago in the 1960s,
 the historic returns on stocks had never been scientifically quantified. Then the
 Center for Research in Security Prices came up with the 9.2% compound annual
 return that fired many investors' appetites.
 The concept of growth-stock investing was popularized in the 1960s; I remember
 reading a broker's brochure about companies with exciting earnings growth. This led
 to the "nifty-fifty" investing craze, in which investors (and especially bank trust
 departments) bought the stocks of fast-growing companies regardless of valuation.

 The equity boom burst in the 1970s. We experienced an oil embargo, a very serious
 recession, inflation rates ranging up to 16%, a 45% decline in the S&P 500 in 1973-74,

 and considerably larger losses in nifty-fifty stocks. The stock market stayed in the
 doldrums for years, brokers drove cabs (literally), and Business Week ended a dismal
 decade with its downbeat cover story on stocks.

 In fact, the economy, markets and attitudes turned so negative for so long in the 1970s
 that rather than a downward cycle around the long-term upward trend, one might say
 the decade marked a downturn in the long-term trend (clearly there's no standard for
 these things). Regardless of what you call it, the decline was so big that it took almost
 eleven years for the Dow Jones Industrials to get back to the high it reached at the
 beginning of 1973.

 But in 1982, stocks returned to what would be a 25-year bull market, and there arose an
 even greater cult of equities. Wharton Professor Jeremy Siegel wrote Stocks for the Long
 Run, showing there'd never been a long period in which stocks hadn't outperformed cash,
 bonds and inflation. Everyone concluded stocks were the asset class of choice and the
 ideal investment. "65/35" was the usual stock/bond balance in institutional portfolios,
 but eventually stocks became more heavily weighted, as strong performance in the 1980s
 and '90s further fired peoples' ardor and as stocks' long-term return was upgraded to
 11%. Few investors recognized that increasing past returns bode poorly - not well -
 for subsequent returns, or that common stock returns couldn't forever outpace the
 rate of growth in corporate profits. In 1999, James Glassman chimed in with his book
 Dow 36,000, asserting that because stocks were such solid investments, equity risk
 premiums were higher than they should have been, meaning their prices were too low.
 That pretty much marked the long-cycle top.

 When the "tech-media-telecom" bubble burst in 2000, stocks went into their first three-
 year decline in almost 70 years. The broad indices stabilized after 2002 and returned to
 their 1999 highs in 2007 but, wanting more than equities' unlevered return, investors
 shifted their focus to private equity and to equity hedge funds. All of this occurred just in
 time for the onset of the credit crisis. Last year's 38.5% decline in the S&P 500 was the
 biggest since 1931, zeroing out more than a decade of gains.

 I wonder whether and to what extent equities will be returned to the pedestal of
 popularity. The Wall Street Journal put it aptly on December 22:

 One of the hallmarks of the long market downturns in the 1930s and the
 1970s has returned: Rank-and-file investors are losing faith in stocks.

 In the grinding bear markets of the past, huge stock losses left individual
 investors feeling burned. Failures of once-trusted firms and institutions
 further sapped their confidence. Many disenchanted investors stayed
 away from the stock market, holding back gains for a decade or more.

 Today's investors, too, are surveying a stock-market collapse and a wave
 of Wall Street failures and scandals. Many have headed for the exits:

 Investors pulled a record $72 billion from stock funds overall in October
 alone . . . .

 If history is any guide, they may not return quickly.

 I want to make a heretical assertion: that equities aren't the greatest thing since
 sliced bread, but rather an asset class that can do well or poorly depending on how
 it's priced. Investors fell into a trap at the 1999 peak because they were seduced by
 stocks' long-term average return in addition to their recent gains. Rather than ask
 "What's been the historic return on stocks?" they should have asked "What's been the
 historic return on stocks if you bought them when the average p/e ratio was 29 (which it
 was at the time)?" Once again, investors came to believe in the magic asset class and
 forgot the importance of reasonable valuation.

 The truth is, rather than being superior, equities are an inferior asset class . . .
 structurally, that is. Unlike debt, they don't promise annual interest or repayment at
 maturity, and they don't carry a senior claim against the company's assets in case of
 trouble. All they offer is an uncapped participation in profits. Debt promises a stream of
 contractual payments, and common stocks provide the residual that remains after those
 payments have been made. Thus equities' higher historic average and potential
 future returns should be viewed as nothing more than compensation for their
 inferior status and greater volatility. They're not magic, just securities that can
 perform well when they're priced right for the coming profits. If sluggish growth
 lies ahead for the economy in the next few years, it's no given that common stocks
 will outperform corporate bonds.

 Go Around, Come Around

 Mark Twain is alleged to have said "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme."
 Mistakes follow long-standing patterns, but applied in new ways. Thus it's worth noting
 a few of the many ways in which events of the pre-crisis years are reminiscent of the
 Roaring Twenties that preceded the Great Crash.

 In the 1920s, stock manipulators banded together to force down the price of stocks
 through non-stop short selling. The damage caused by these "bear raids" led to
 implementation of the "uptick rule," under which shares could be shorted only at
 prices higher than the last. This rule made it hard for short sellers to drive down
 prices, and it remained in effect right up until July 2007. Its elimination enabled
 bears to once again drive down the stocks of weakened financial institutions, an
 emblematic event in 2008.

 The combination of banking and investment banking under the same roof received a
 good part of the blame for the Great Crash (see one of my favorite books, Wall Street
 Under Oath by Ferdinand Pecora, 1939). This led to passage of the Glass-Steagall
 Act mandating separation of the two. It was revoked in 1999, and when they were

 recombined, the battle between bankers' caution and investment bankers' risk
 tolerance was won by the latter, putting institutions that were "too big to fail" in
 jeopardy. This played no small part in the current crisis.

 Also in the '20s, "bucket shops" provided easy access to investment risk. They
 would take "side bets" on the direction of stocks from small customers without
 actually sending orders to the exchange. Instead, they'd throw order slips "in the
 bucket" and hold the risk themselves. Voilà: investment exposure without a stock
 market transaction. The other day, Charlie Munger reminded me of the similarity of
 bucket shops to today's derivative contracts, which likewise permit bets on
 investments without any actual transactions taking place in the underlying securities.
 Massively levered derivatives played a big part in this decade's build-up of risk.

 Developments like these don't happen randomly. They're the logical next step after
 optimism and ardor have increased, caution has subsided, and the desire for
 protective regulation has abated. The relaxation of worry eventually leads to
 environmental changes that permit excesses.

 The Culmination

 When the long-term pendulum is at its negative extreme, it can be counted on to turn for
 the better at some point, passing the midpoint and continuing toward the positive part of
 its arc. Eventually the pendulum will reach an apex so high that it'll be incapable of
 staying there. Then it will swing back, whether under its own weight or because of
 exogenous forces, or both. In the course of moving from merely heated to torrid,
 however, I believe it can be counted on to bring out behavior which is manic and
 dangerous.

 The current long-term cycle may have begun in the post-World War II recovery. It
 benefited from the positive factors discussed on pages 2 and 3 and resulted in great
 capital creation for consumers, homebuyers, businesses, non-profits and investors. But it
 continued on from "healthy" to "excessive," resulting in the events of the last eighteen
 months, many of which can be summed up under the heading of capital destruction.

 The greatest single example may be the case of Bernard Madoff, in which a trusted, high-
 performing investment manager allegedly fabricated his record, deceived friends and
 strangers alike, and lost or stole $50 billion. An increase in fraud can be viewed as a
 normal component - in fact, perhaps emblematic - of frothy, cycle-driven markets. Who
 hears of embezzlement during bearish times? A few lines from the Financial Times of
 December 20 indicate the cyclical aspects of the Madoff affair:

 The size of the alleged Bernard Madoff scam . . . is astounding, yet
 unsurprising. History tells us that bubbles spawn swindles. After the
 biggest credit bubble of all time, we now may have the biggest swindle of
 all time. . . . The historian Charles Kindleberger believed that "swindling

 is demand-determined, following Keynes's law that demand determines its
 own supply. . . ."

 Mr. Madoff's story was dull . . . but compelling in a credit bubble where
 yields were everywhere falling. . . .

 When a wave of redemptions hit the Madoff funds, the Ponzi scheme . . .
 became unworkable. . . . Reputations inflated in the bubble [of the 1920s]
 promptly evaporated in the 1929 crash, which exposed a plethora of
 swindles. Redemptions of the hedge funds business are having the same
 effect today.

 Having appreciated in the up cycle, mainstream securities offered only meager returns
 going forward, causing investors to turn elsewhere. Madoff's steady 10-11% returns
 wouldn't have blown off anyone's socks in the 1990s, but they were enticing in the
 2000s. Add in the optimism, credulity and loosey-goosey attitudes that always
 accompany the top of a cycle, and the atmosphere was right for what John Kenneth
 Galbraith called a good "bezzle." But when things retreated from the lofty level that
 couldn't be maintained, investors put in for redemption and the falsehoods came to light.

 The Madoff scam was cut from the same up-cycle-gone-wild cloth as the elimination
 of the uptick rule. Scams; unsupportable mortgages on overpriced homes; over-
 leveraged hedge funds, debt pools and buyouts; insurers with inadequate capital;
 managers incapable of doing what they said they could . . . as Warren Buffett says,
 they're all exposed when the tide goes out. What are the results to date? The outing of
 the biggest fraud in history; $1 trillion of write-offs by the banks thus far; $7.8 trillion
 committed to "recovery activities" by the U.S. alone; the biggest decline in the Dow
 Jones Industrials in 77 years; more than a decade of equity appreciation lost; the
 disappearance of every major U.S. non-bank investment bank; and a cry for more and
 better regulation. Now that the bursting of the credit bubble has affected the general
 economy, we're seeing declining consumer incomes, confidence and spending;
 plummeting home sales, home prices and housing starts; and the highest unemployment
 rate in many years. All of this is part and parcel of the long-term cycle.

 Trends Just Ahead

 Unlike the "era of increasing willingness," many things will face increased difficulty
 in the months and years just ahead. It'll be tougher times for anything dependent
 on:

 bullishness, willingness and expansiveness,
 increasing economic activity and consumer spending,
 the ability to incur, service, repay or refinance debt,
 asset sales and the ability to delever, and
 strong asset values and investment returns.

 Clearly, it was in the financial world, not the "real world," that the great excesses of
 bullishness, willingness and expansiveness developed, planting the seeds for the current
 crisis. But financial-sector attitudes and innovations allowed excesses in all the things
 listed above to be visited upon the real world, where we're now experiencing difficulty in
 them. It's no coincidence that history-making excesses in the financial sector - and the
 correction thereof - led to history-making weakness in the real economy.

 It may be a good while before the elements listed are fully restored and the long-
 term trend roars upward again. The government is doing everything it can to
 reinstate them, but there's no roadmap for success. We all have to wait with fingers
 crossed. However, in the coming period, while we'll be hoping for the short-term
 cycle to recover, it's quite likely that the long-term trends listed on pages 2 and 3
 will be less salutary than they were in decades leading up to the current crisis.

 When will cyclical recovery arrive? For this, too, there's no roadmap. Most economists
 rely for their predictions on models that extrapolate relationships between investment,
 production, employment and consumption, for example, but they omit psychological
 considerations such as bullishness, willingness and expansiveness. On January 3, a New
 York Times article reported that a survey of economists had found consensus that
 recovery would commence in the second half of 2009. But it added that the economists:

 . . . base their forecasts on computer models that tend to see the American
 economy as basically sound, even in the worst of times. That makes these
 forecasters generally a more optimistic lot . . . their computer models do
 not easily account for emotional factors like the shock from the credit
 crisis and falling housing prices that have so hindered borrowing and
 spending.

 Those models also take as a given that the natural state of a market
 economy like America's is a high level of economic activity, and that it
 will rebound almost reflexively to that high level from a recession.

 But that assumes that banks and other lenders are not holding back on
 loans, as they are today, depriving the nation of the credit necessary for a
 vigorous economy.

 These forecasters might assert that their models have worked on average. But I'd guess
 the period during which they worked didn't include sluggishness in long-term trends of
 the nature I'm discussing here. Recognizing times when historic data shouldn't be
 extrapolated is an important part of dealing prudently with the future.

 Importantly in this context, I want to point out that the recent decades shouldn't be
 considered a norm to which we're sure to return. Instead, they were the best of
 times. Most years saw good returns; most investments paid off (often the riskier the
 better); and most investors made a lot of money. The financial services industry

 prospered, and its people made a lot of money and had inordinate fun doing so. From
 1987 to 2007, "securities, commodity contracts, and investments" grew twice as fast as
 total gross output. And according to The New York Times of December 19, in 2007, ". . .
 the average salary of employees [in that category] was more than four times the average
 salary in the rest of the economy."

 In other words, it was high tide. All financial boats were lifted, obscuring who was
 swimming without a bathing suit. In times like those, you can make money through
 skill or just aggressiveness, and it's hard to tell which is which.

 In my view, superior investors are the ones who make more money in the good times
 than they give back in the bad. The ebb tide in the next few years will show us which
 they were. Managers who perform relatively well for their clients in this period will be
 recognized and rewarded. The rest shouldn't be able to amass funds or command fees as
 effortlessly as they did in the past. Of course, we hope Oaktree will be among the
 former. We'll all know in a few years. In the new, chastened environment, I don't
 think anyone will jump to conclusions as readily as they did in the past.

 The other day, I was speaking with a reporter who summed up what I had said: "So
 skepticism will be greater; investors will be more risk-averse; fund raising will be harder;
 and fees will receive more scrutiny. That'll be worse for business, right?" For the short
 run and for managers who failed their clients, it likely will. But in the long run, it'll
 make for a much healthier environment for all of us.

 The Importance of the Long View

 As usual, some of the most important lessons concern the need to (a) study and
 remember the events of the past and (b) be conscious of the cyclical nature of things.
 Up close, the blind man may mistake the elephant's leg for a tree - and the
 shortsighted investor may think an uptrend (or a downtrend) will go on forever.
 But if we step back and view the long sweep of history, we should be able to bear in
 mind that the long-term cycle repeats and understand where we stand in it. The
 failure to do so can be most painful. John Kenneth Galbraith provided a reminder in A
 Short History of Financial Euphoria:

 Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time
 or in past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory.
 In consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further
 consequence, when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again,
 sometimes in only a few years, they are hailed by a new, often youthful,
 and always supremely self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative
 discovery in the financial and larger economic world. There can be few
 fields of human endeavor in which history counts for so little as in the
 world of finance. Past experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at

 all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those who do not have the
 insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.

 Jim Grant did a good job of putting a cyclical movement into perspective in the January
 31, 2003 issue of Grant's Interest Rate Observer:

 Wall Street today is in one of its recurrent sinking spells. Many call it a
 crisis of confidence, by which they mean under-confidence. Less attention
 is given to the preceding crisis of overconfidence. Material progress is
 cumulative, but markets are cyclical. First, investors trust too much, then
 they doubt too much. They believe that no price is too high to pay for a
 stock or a bond, then they doubt that any price is too low. So credulity is
 followed by cynicism, unreasonably high prices by ridiculously low ones.

 Central banks will try to stabilize economies, and company managers will strive for
 smooth earnings growth. But as long as human beings determine security prices,
 market cycles will be the rule, not the exception. The extremes of greed, fear and
 worry over missing out will never be banished.

 At times investors will be too risk-tolerant, and at others they'll be too risk-averse.
 They'll forget to inquire skeptically after things have gone well for a while, just as they'll
 ask too many questions and hesitate too much when recent events have decimated
 securities prices (and investors' psyches). As little as two years ago, investors rushed
 headlong into things, fearing that if they didn't, they'd miss out on big gains. Now
 they're keeping their money in their wallets, saying "I don't care if I ever make a
 penny in the market again, I just don't want to lose any more." This change in
 attitudes - throughout the financial system - is responsible for a lot of today's deep
 freeze.

 Over the last several decades, our economy and markets benefited from positive
 underlying trends and investors were well rewarded for bearing risk. As a result, there
 was rising bullishness, willingness and expansiveness. When these trends reached
 unsustainable excesses, they were corrected with a vengeance. I'm now of the opinion
 that not only will short-term economic cycles of boom and bust repeat regularly, but
 also that favorable long-term trends are bound to see a recurrence of this sort of
 occasional massive pullback . . . at that moment when the passage of time has erased
 all memory of past corrections and taken investor behavior (and thus asset prices)
 to unsustainable highs.

 Buoyant, decades-long up-trends and their explosive endings are the inevitable
 results of the tendency of human nature to go to extremes. Hopefully the current
 bursting of the long-term bubble will end within the next few years, and hopefully the
 next iteration is another 30, 50 or 70 years away. This one's providing enough
 excitement for a lifetime.


Memo: Will It Work?.

The other day, my son Andrew - college senior and credit-analyst-to-be - asked whether
 I think Treasury Secretary Geithner is doing the right things. As has happened before, his
 question elicited a fatherly response that grew into this memo.

 When you want a bridge built, you hire a civil engineer whose "calcs" will determine
 exactly how much concrete and steel should be used. Then it'll be sure to hold the
 weight of the cars you expect to cross it. And if you have to perform a task in carpentry,
 you can employ specialized tools developed and tested expressly for the job: esoteric
 things like miter boxes, routers and extractors.

 One of the most important things to bear in mind today is that economics isn't an exact
 science. It may not even be much of a science at all, in the sense that in science,
 controlled experiments can be conducted, past results can be replicated with confidence,
 and cause-and-effect relationships can be depended on to hold. It's not for nothing that
 economics is called "the dismal science."

 Solutions in economics aren't nearly as dependable as engineers' calculations, and there
 may not be a tool that's just right for fixing an economy. Of course, the toolbox offers
 lots of possibilities, including interest rate reductions; quantitative easing; tax cuts,
 rebates and credits; stimulus checks; infrastructure spending; capital injections; loans,
 rescues and takeovers; regulatory forebearances and on and on. But no one should
 think there's a "golden tool," such that solving the problem is just a matter of
 figuring out which one it is and applying it. Anyone who holds the problem solvers to
 that standard is being unfair and unrealistic. There are a number of reasons why,
 including these:

 Every situation is different, and none is exactly like any that has come before. That
 means fixed recipes can't work. Certainly this one has never been seen before.
 Most policy actions aren't all good or all bad. They merely represent imperfect
 compromises as to ideology, goals, problem solving and resource allocation.
 Economic problems are multi-faceted, meaning the solution for one aspect might not
 work on - and in fact might exacerbate - another aspect.
 Economies are dynamic, and the problems are moving targets. The environment
 changes constantly, rather than sitting still and waiting for a solution to work.
 The main ingredient in economics is psychology, and the workings of psychology
 clearly can't be fully known, controlled or fixed.

 Here's how Thomas Friedman put it in The New York Times of January 31:

 Everyone is looking for the guy - the guy who can tell you exactly what
 ails the world's financial system, exactly how we get out of this mess and
 exactly what you should be doing to protect your savings. . . . But here's
 what's really scary: the guy isn't here. He's left the building. . . .

 There is no magic bullet for this economic crisis, no magic bailout
 package, no magic stimulus. We have woven such a tangled financial
 mess with subprime mortgages wrapped in complex bonds and
 derivatives, pumped up with leverage, and then globalized to the far
 corners of the earth that, much as we want to think this will soon be over,
 that is highly unlikely.

 The "I know" school (which first appeared in a memo in 2001) is still making
 predictions. Statistical comparisons are being made to past recessions and solutions
 extrapolated from those experiences. Thus it's the consensus of this school that the
 recovery will start during the first quarter of 2010. I also see people projecting a stock
 market rebound based on the average time between past declines and the recoveries
 therefrom.

 I think it's a mistake to hold confident opinions about the events of today. Instead, I
 think this is a great time to reaffirm faith in the "I don't know" school, of which I'm a
 card-carrying member. No one should feel certain they know what's going to unfold, or
 when. The only things we have to fall back on at this juncture are intrinsic value,
 company survival and our own staying power as investors. Of course, even these
 things mean we have to make judgments about what the future is likely to look like.
 That requirement, in turn, means nothing can be approached with complete safety
 or certainty. Nevertheless, we can take action if we think those three elements will
 be present under most circumstances. That's the right mindset for today.

 Harder Than Sudoku

 The impossibility of reaching into the economic toolbox for that one perfect tool is easily
 illustrated with a list of some of the challenges present today. For a learning exercise,
 skip today's Sudoku or crossword puzzle and take a crack at resolving these dilemmas:

 Consumer confidence and spending are weak. We want to stimulate, but we don't
 want to replace weakness with hyperinflation.
 We're willing to drop fiscal discipline in favor of stimulus through deficit spending,
 but we don't want to scare away offshore investors from the Treasury securities we'll
 issue to fund our deficits.
 We're willing to distribute stimulus checks, but we seem unable to make frightened
 individuals spend the money rather than save it.
 In fact, we know consumers got into trouble by spending more than they earned, and

 now they should build some savings. But whereas in the recent past consumer
 spending grew faster than incomes, a rising savings rate means spending would grow
 slower than incomes, just at a time when incomes are falling and spending is needed.
 Likewise, with tax revenues down, states and cities have to balance their budgets.
 One way to do so is to raise income tax and sales tax rates, but this will further
 depress local economies and increase the burden on their beleaguered citizens.
 We want to recapitalize the banks, but we don't want to reward past mistakes.
 We're thinking about buying the banks' "toxic" assets. But if we pay above-market
 prices, that's a subsidy to the reckless (see above), and if we pay market or below-
 market prices, that will further erode bank capital through write-downs.
 We know suspending mark-to-market accounting would end write-downs, but doing
 so might also reduce confidence in balance sheets and postpone the day of reckoning
 needed for our financial institutions to reach bottom and recover.
 We want the banks to lend, but we can't - and shouldn't - make them extend loans to
 non-creditworthy borrowers.
 We want to reduce the incidence of home foreclosure, but we don't want to reward
 people who speculated by buying multiple homes or lied on mortgage applications.
 And we'd rather not treat people who bought more house than they could afford
 better than those who acted prudently.
 We want to make mortgage relief available to those who are unable to service their
 mortgages, but we don't want to give people incentives to stop making payments.
 We're considering letting bankruptcy judges reset mortgage contracts, but we don't
 want to tell lenders that loan contracts are no longer sacrosanct, which certainly
 would deter them from making new loans.
 We don't want the depressant impact of auto companies going bankrupt and suppliers
 and dealers following suit. But we also don't want to pump money into the industry
 unless we're confident it can produce good cars at competitive prices.
 We want to see the auto industry "rationalized," but that means seeing people lose
 their jobs or have their paychecks reduced, which would spread pain, put stress on
 benefit funds, and cut into GDP.
 We want taxpayer-supported automakers to use American steel, but (assuming it's
 more expensive than imported steel) that will either (a) raise car prices, making cars
 more expensive for hard-pressed buyers and making the Big 3 less competitive, or (b)
 require the companies to eat the difference, making it harder for them to achieve
 profitability.
 We want to curb speculation in derivatives, but we don't want to make it harder for
 businesses, farmers, insurers and investors to legitimately hedge risk.
 In fact, we want to prevent excesses on the part of business, but most people don't
 think it's a good idea to nationalize companies or have the government tell them how
 to operate.

 It's abundantly clear from this list - and it's only a partial list - that solving the
 current problem will require compromises and a combination of disparate elements.
 Some will work, while others will fail and have to be replaced. And some will work
 with regard to one facet of the problem but aggravate another. Lastly, no one
 should think that even a wise combination will produce quick results.

 Regulating Excess Compensation

 Some of the excesses the government wants to stop are in the area of compensation at
 rescued banks. Excessive compensation seems to have a lot in common with hard-core
 pornography: As Potter Stewart, Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court,
 wrote about the latter, it's hard to define but "I know it when I see it."

 It's easy to react adversely when an institution that lost billions and needed a taxpayer
 bailout is seen paying millions or billions in executive bonuses. But how do we define
 excessive compensation, and what should be done about it? More importantly, how do
 we make sure the cure won't be worse than the disease?

 On February 14, The Wall Street Journal reported that,

 The giant stimulus package that cleared Congress Friday includes a last-
 minute addition that restricts bonuses for top earners at firms receiving
 federal cash . . . The most stringent pay restriction bars any company
 receiving funds from paying top earners bonuses equal to more than one-
 third of their total annual compensation.

 Some limitation on compensation at taxpayer-supported institutions seems reasonable
 and unavoidable. But is this provision a good thing? Here are some of the problems:

 It doesn't limit compensation, just bonuses.
 Bonuses - especially if tied to achievements - should be preferable to high
 salaries from the point of view of shareholders and taxpayers. In fact, it was just
 a few years ago that federal legislation created a preference for incentive
 compensation tied to benchmarks.
 An executive with a $1 million salary is in compliance with this restriction if he
 receives a bonus of $500,000. But one who's paid $250,000 is in violation if he
 receives a bonus of $200,000. Should the taxpayer prefer the former to the latter?
 Past challenges, like mobilizing industry for World War II, were met by recruiting
 "dollar-a-year" leaders. One hope here might be that able businesspeople will
 come forward to work for nothing but a big success fee. Citigroup CEO Vikram
 Pandit is receiving a salary of $1. Should we really limit his bonus to 50 cents?
 The new law will limit bonuses at taxpayer-assisted banks, not all banks. Will
 that doom the rescued banks to second-rate management? And thus second-rate
 profitability? Is that desirable?
 Bank managements and boards may want to avoid this limitation, and to do that
 they may turn down or rush to repay federal money. Doing so may reduce the
 banks' capital, weakening them and inhibiting their ability to lend.
 Even the biggest losers among the banks had some profitable units and excellent
 managers. Do we want the weak institutions to lose these to their stronger peers
 because they can't pay competitively?
 Does the fact that some bank managers made grave mistakes in recent years
 mean no bank executives can be deserving of high compensation? Does the

 government really want to stigmatize the field of banking and chase able
 executives from it to industries where compensation is unregulated?
 The last time I saw legislation with near-unanimous appeal on a corporate-behavior
 issue was in 2002, after the Enron scandal. American business is still suffering from
 some of Sarbanes-Oxley's less-well-conceived provisions.

 Observers are disappointed when recovery plans aren't announced quickly or in detail.
 Yet here's a provision that was inserted quickly and in detail, and it doesn't do a lot to
 advance the ball. Bottom line: a quick fix will prove hard to come by.

 Who's Right?

 My mother used to tell a story about the shtetls - villages - in the old country where
 disagreements were settled by the rabbi. In one, an argument was raging with no possible
 grounds for compromise. The villagers brought the two parties to the rabbi. "Tell your
 side," the rabbi said to one fellow, and he did. "You're right," the rabbi declared.

 One of the bystanders piped up: "You can't tell him he's right, rabbi; you haven't heard
 the other side of the story." So the rabbi told the other party to tell his side, and he did.
 His story was the polar opposite of the other party's. "You're right," said the rabbi.

 "Hold on, rabbi," a villager said, "the first guy told his story and you said he was right.
 Then the other guy told his story - different in every regard - and you said he was right.
 They both can't be right." "And you're right," said the rabbi.

 The current disagreement over bank nationalization shows that (a) there can be valid
 arguments on both sides of an issue and (b) it can be hard to figure out who's right. Here
 are a few of the pros and cons as advanced by The Wall Street Journal on February 24:

 What are the pluses to nationalizing firms?

 Some banks are bleeding slowly toward insolvency. Nationalizing them
 promptly would allow the government to wipe out the most toxic assets,
 reorganize what is left and sell the remains to private investors. On a
 broader front, nationalization could help heal the banking system and
 encourage the remaining firms to boost lending.

 What are the minuses?

 Investors in the nationalized bank would likely be wiped out. And
 nationalizing even one or two banks could create a chain reaction of
 failing confidence. . . .

 Nationalization would also be expensive and complicated, taxing a
 bureaucracy that isn't set up to operate mega-firms. And while the goal of

 nationalization may be to return companies to private hands, the
 temptation to run them for political purposes would be immense.

 Obviously, there are arguments on both sides.

 One Proposal

 The other night, I had dinner with my friend Richard Ressler, principal and founder of
 CIM Group. He has an idea as to how things can be fixed (as usual), and it's a pretty
 good one. I'll summarize below his thoughts on the banking industry:

 There are banking institutions which, because of their magnitude and significance,
 should be supported through deposit insurance, government guarantees and rescues.
 These banks should engage only in the prosaic acts of accepting deposits and making
 loans. They should not take on ultra-high leverage or make exotic investments. And
 they shouldn't do business through unregulated, off-balance-sheet subsidiaries.
 Institutions that wish to do things that are off-limits to these banks should do so, but
 without the benefit of government protection. If they want to take on 30-times
 leverage and pursue proprietary profits, they should bear the consequences
 themselves.
 Thus banking and risky investing should be separated.

 In The New York Times of February 2, Professor Paul Krugman of Princeton argued that
 we have to avoid "lemon socialism: taxpayers bear the cost if things go wrong, but
 stockholders and executives get the benefits if things go right." One way to prevent this,
 as Richard suggests, is to make sure government support and high-octane risk taking
 don't take place in the same firms.

 I've been told it isn't his, but a saying widely attributed to Mark Twain seems to be on
 the mark: "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme." There's no need to invent
 the mechanism through which to accomplish the above; we can look to history and gain
 inspiration from the Glass-Steagall Act.

 After the Great Crash, congressional committees investigated its causes, some of which
 remind one of today's. The result was this 1933 law, which mandated that banking be
 separated from investment banking and investment services. It's far from irrelevant to
 the current situation that Glass-Steagall's powers ended in 1999, when key parts were
 repealed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. This new law had the goal of encouraging
 competition in banking, investment services and insurance, by permitting common
 ownership by financial conglomerates.

 Protecting society against risky investment activities on the part of government-
 insured institutions is a good thing. And competition in providing financial services
 is a good thing. But the two goals can be in conflict and have to be balanced, and the
 consensus as to which should prevail will oscillate from time to time. So in addition to

 there not being perfect solutions, there also may not be permanent solutions. That's
 why crises will recur and history will continue to rhyme.

 Politics as Usual

 Few phrases strike terror in the hearts of businesspeople and many just-plain-citizens
 more than the three little words that are the title of this section. The other day, a friend
 with high-up experience explained the facts of life in Washington. He organized his
 observations into the "Three P's."

 Policy is fashioned through intellectual debate conducted on a high plane. Well-
 meaning people can disagree, but policy analysis follows from facts and underlying
 ideology in a relatively straightforward way.
 Process is the mechanism through which policy is turned into action. It is complex
 and arcane and the exclusive province of people with experience in Washington.
 Politics shapes the law that policy becomes. My friend had lots of words for it, but
 the one that stood out to me was "distasteful."

 As an aside, my friend laid out an important difference between government and
 business, in which he's also highly experienced. In business, he says, everyone's main
 goal is the success of the company. Contributing to the success of the company enables
 an individual to demonstrate ability and thus rise in the organization. Success for the
 company creates a pool of profits from which the individual can be well paid. It also
 amounts to a "win" for a team of which every person wants to be a member.

 But in government, success is hard to measure, difficult to connect to any one
 individual's contribution, and slow in coming. Thus it's hard to view success for the
 government as constituting elected officials' primary motivation. Instead, the most
 important thing is getting re-elected. That personal, short-term consideration can have
 nothing to do with the long-term well-being of the nation. This is especially true in the
 House of Representatives, he says, where two-year terms mean the members are never
 done running for re-election.

 Despite the crisis facing the country and the crying need for prompt action, we're seeing
 a good dose of politics as usual. YouTube provides an up-close look at this stuff. It also
 gives politicians the audience many seem to crave.

 Today a lynch-mob attitude prevails toward bankers, mortgage lenders and credit-rating
 agencies. I'm not saying a lot of it isn't deserved, but it still can be overdone. It's always
 good political theater to pile on a purported villain, whether through a perp-walk for
 handcuffed inside traders in 1986 or a televised congressional hearing for bankers in

 Check out Congress's grilling of bankers on YouTube and you'll see what I think is
 vilification and ad hominem attack ("appealing to one's prejudices, emotions, or special

 interests rather than to one's intellect or reason" - Random House Dictionary) intended
 for public consumption. One congressman told Vikram Pandit, Citibank's CEO, he was
 amazed by a deal the bank had made: "The government gets $7 billion in preferred stock
 and the government's on the hook for $250 billion of losses. . . . You tell me, Mr. Pandit:
 where can I get a deal like this?" Pandit explained that it was insurance: for a premium
 of $7 billion, Citibank got a policy covering $301 billion of mortgage securities, with Citi
 taking the first $30 billion of losses and 10% of any losses beyond that.

 Should it come as a surprise that an insurance policy costs significantly less to buy than
 the amount of risk assumed by the insurer? If it didn't, why would anyone buy one?
 Under this policy, Citi will lose money if there aren't $38 billion in losses (in which case
 Citi would receive nothing on the first $30 billion but 90% of the next $8 billion, so
 proceeds would be equal to the $7 billion premium it had paid). Was this deal really such
 a giveaway? And should the Congressman really be surprised to learn the government
 has a preference for seeing Citi survive and is willing to cut it a good deal?

 On the campaign trail and in victory, President Obama called for non-partisanship and
 united action. With Democrats controlling the White House and Congress, to him that
 means Republicans should vote in favor of solutions crafted primarily by Democrats. So
 far, it's not happening. On the stimulus package, only three of the 217 Republican votes
 in Congress - just over one percent - were cast with the Democratic majority. (And only
 seven of the 308 Democratic votes went with the Republicans.) Not much aisle crossing
 in either direction. Of course, there are lots of reasons why broad agreement is rarely
 seen:

 Genuine ideological differences exist between individuals and between parties.
 Some want an expanded government to fix problems, and others prefer to rely on free
 markets to do so. Some view increased government spending as holding the key to
 the solution, and others prefer to reduce taxes. Some want to rescue weak financial
 institutions, and others want only the strongest, best-run to survive. Thus, failing to
 go along with the majority isn't necessarily a sign of a character flaw.

 There are also valid differences in motivation. The president is a national officer
 whose job it is to find an overall solution. But legislators are elected locally to
 represent local interests, and those can diverge from the interests of other regions or
 the nation. It shouldn't come as a surprise that they push for particular benefits for
 their constituents.

 Finally there comes self-interest. The truth is that each party has the underlying goal
 of wanting to elect its members and make the other side look bad. And even if it's
 needed to solve a grave national problem, a conservative answer might be repugnant
 and unacceptable to voters in a liberal district, and vice versa. Thus, doing the "right
 thing" can be tantamount to political suicide. How many elected officials will choose
 the latter?

 Today's Rhetoric

 I think people in government who're addressing the situation have a difficult row to hoe:

 First and most immediately, they've had to play up the emergency in order to
 convince legislators (and the voters who put them in office) that the situation is dire
 and strong action is required. Thus we've heard words like "catastrophe," "collapse"
 and "worst since the Great Depression."

 Second, however, they're well advised to play down the threat. Franklin D.
 Roosevelt receives a lot of credit for having said, "The only thing we have to fear is
 fear itself." Given the crucial role of confidence in the functioning of an economy,
 it's not a great idea to spread panic. The rational response of frightened people is to
 save rather than spend, and to sell investments rather than buy, making things worse.

 Third, the President likely wants to create modest expectations. If there's a feeling
 that a valid response should work right away, slow progress will look like failure. No
 one wants consumers and businesses to further pull in their horns if economic
 recovery isn't forthcoming in 2009.

 It's hard not to be sympathetic to this dilemma. It shows another of the ways in which
 conflicting goals have to be compromised in the real world of economics and politics.

 The Bottom Line

 There are so many moving parts to the current situation - and to its causes and what we
 hope will be its solution - that I've tried to boil things down to the essentials. In order
 to right the system and get the economy moving forward again, I think three main
 things have to be accomplished:

 Our economy and its component parts have to be delevered;
 The vast destruction of capital has to be dealt with; and
 Confidence has to be restored.

 Here's how Paul Krugman described the challenge in The New York Times of February

 For most of the last decade America was a nation of borrowers and
 spenders, not savers. . . .

 Yet until very recently Americans believed they were getting richer,
 because they received statements saying that their houses and stock
 portfolios were appreciating in value faster than their debts were
 increasing. . . .

 Then reality struck, and it turned out that the worriers had been right all
 along. The surge in asset values had been an illusion - but the surge in
 debt had been all too real. . . .

 . . . this is a broad-based mess. Everyone talks about the problems of the
 banks, which are indeed in even worse shape than the rest of the system.
 But the banks aren't the only players with too much debt and too few
 assets; the same description applies to the private sector as a whole.

 As the great American economist Irving Fisher pointed out in the 1930s,
 the things people and companies do when they realize they have too much
 debt tend to be self-defeating when everyone tries to do them at the same
 time. Attempts to sell assets and pay off debt deepen the plunge in asset
 prices, further reducing net worth. Attempts to save more translate into a
 collapse of consumer demand, deepening the economic slump.

 . . . Government officials understand the issue: we need to "contain what is
 a very damaging and potentially deflationary spiral," says Lawrence
 Summers, a top Obama economic adviser.

 Debt has to be reduced, and it's happening (other than at the federal level, of course).
 But the way it happens is usually unpleasant: bankruptcies, foreclosures and debt
 restructurings. "Debt reduction" sounds like a good thing, but it's likely to be
 accompanied by the painful loss of the assets that had been bought with borrowed
 money.

 Many assets are worth far less than they used to be - that's one of the main reasons why
 the debt load has become unbearable and has to be reduced. Investors, consumers,
 homeowners and financial institutions will have to rebuild their capital as they -
 and the economy - attempt to again move ahead.

 And confidence has to be rebuilt, too. The willingness to borrow, spend and invest
 will rebound only when people believe incomes and asset values will resume their
 growth.

 In the past, we've seen a standard pattern unfold, with the best examples falling in the
 corporate debt arena. Once denial ends and people accept capital destruction as a
 fact, restructurings can take place in which debt is discharged and ownership
 changes hands. The transition of assets to new owners, who may have lower cost
 bases and the ability to inject additional capital, brings the possibility of attractive
 returns, the onset of which restores interest in investing. It seems inescapable that
 this pattern will be a major feature of the next few years.

 The government's actions clearly are aimed at accomplishing the three things I say we
 need. Some will work, and some won't. I believe that, eventually, the combination of
 things they try - along with the pattern described above and the positive bent that

 underlies the free market system - will return us to an upward trajectory. It just
 won't be easy, quick or painless.

 And that's why I think the investment decisions we make today must emphasize
 value, survivability and staying power. I readily acknowledge that assuring survival in
 bad times is inconsistent with return maximization in good times. Insistence on these
 three things won't produce the greatest rewards if the economy and markets surprise on
 the upside, but that's not my main concern.

 Given the uncertainty present today, it's hard enough to find investments that can be
 relied on to deliver solid returns in good times but also assure survival in bad. In that
 interest, we've always been willing to cede to others much of that part of the return
 distribution lying between "solid" and "maximum." This time is no different.


Memo: So Much That’s False and Nutty.

As reported in The New York Times of May 5, Warren Buffett told the crowd at this
 year's Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting:

 There is so much that's false and nutty in modern investing practice and
 modern investment banking. If you just reduced the nonsense, that's a
 goal you should reasonably hope for.

 As we look back at the causes of the crisis approaching its second anniversary - and
 ahead to how investors might conduct themselves better in the future - Buffett's simple,
 homespun advice holds the key, as usual. I agree that investing practice went off the rails
 in several fundamental ways. Perhaps this memo can help get it back on.

 The Lead-up: Progress and Missteps

 Memory dims with the passage of time, but when I think back to the investment arena I
 entered forty-plus years ago, it seems very different from that of 2003-07. Institutional
 investing was done mainly by bank investment departments (like the one I was part of),
 insurance companies and investment counselors - a pretty dull bunch. And as I like to
 point out when I speak to business school classes, "famous investor" was an oxymoron -
 few investment managers were well known, chosen for magazine covers or listed among
 the top earners.

 There were no swaps, index futures or listed options. Leverage wasn't part of most
 institutional investors' arsenal . . . or vocabulary. Private equity was unknown, and
 hedge funds were too few and outré to matter. Innovations like quantitative investing and
 structured products had yet to arrive, and few people had ever heard of "alpha."

 Return aspirations were modest. Part of this likely was attributable to the narrow range
 of available options: for the most part stocks and bonds. Stocks would average 9-10%
 per year, it was held, but we might put together a portfolio that would do a little better.
 And the admissible bonds were all investment grade, yielding moderate single digits.

 We wanted to earn a good return, limit the risks, beat the Dow and our competitors, and
 retain our clients. But I don't remember any talk of "maximization," or anyone trying to
 "shoot the lights out." And by the way, no one had ever heard of performance fees.
 Quite a different world from that of today. Perhaps it would constitute a service if I
 pulled together a list of some of the developments since then:

 In the mid-1960s, growth investing was invented, along with the belief that if you
 bought the stocks of the "nifty-fifty" fastest-growing companies, you didn't have to
 worry about paying the right price.
 The first of the investment boutiques was created in 1969, as I recall, when highly
 respected portfolio managers from a number of traditional firms joined together to
 form Jennison Associates. For the first time, institutional investing was sexy.
 We started to hear more about investment personalities. There were the "Oscars"
 (Schafer and Tang) and the "Freds" (Carr, Mates and Alger) - big personalities with
 big performance, often working outside the institutional mainstream.
 In the early 1970s, modern portfolio theory began to seep from the University of
 Chicago to Wall Street. With it came indexation, risk-adjusted returns, efficient
 frontiers and risk/return optimization.
 Around 1973, put and call options escaped from obscurity and began to trade on
 exchanges like the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
 Given options' widely varying time frames, strike prices and underlying stocks, a tool
 for valuing them was required, and the Black-Scholes model filled the bill.
 A small number of leveraged buyouts took place starting in the mid-1970s, but they
 attracted little attention.
 1977-79 saw the birth of the high yield bond market. Up to that time, bonds rated
 below investment grade couldn't be issued. That changed with the spread of the
 argument - associated primarily with Michael Milken - that incremental credit risk
 could responsibly be borne if offset by more-than-commensurate yield spreads.
 Around 1980, debt securitization began to occur, with packages of mortgages sliced
 into securities of varying risk and return, with the highest-priority tranche carrying
 the lowest yield, and so forth. This process was an example of disintermediation, in
 which the making of loans moved out of the banks; 25 years later, this would be
 called the shadow banking system.
 One of the first "quant" miracles came along in the 1980s: portfolio insurance.
 Under this automated strategy, investors could ride stocks up but avoid losses by
 entering stop-loss orders if they fell. It looked good on paper, but it failed on Black
 Monday in 1987 when brokers didn't answer their phones.
 In the mid- to late 1980s, the ability to borrow large amounts of money through high
 yield bond offerings made it possible for minor players to effect buyouts of large,
 iconic companies, and "leverage" became part of investors' everyday vocabulary.
 When many of those buyouts proved too highly levered to get through the 1990
 recession and went bust, investing in distressed debt gained currency.
 Real estate had boomed because of excessive tax incentives and the admission of real
 estate to the portfolios of S&Ls, but it collapsed in 1991-92. When the Resolution
 Trust Corporation took failed properties from S&Ls and sold them off,
 "opportunistic" real estate investing was born.
 Mainstream investment managers made the big time, with Peter Lynch and Warren
 Buffett becoming famous for consistently beating the equity indices.
 In the 1990s, emerging market investing became the hot new thing, wowing people
 until it took its knocks in the mid- to late 1990s due to the Mexican peso devaluation,
 Asian financial crisis and Russian debt disavowal.

 Quant investing arrived, too, achieving its first real fame with the success of Long-
 Term Capital Management. This Nobel Prize-laden firm used computer models to
 identify fixed income arbitrage opportunities. Like most other investment miracles, it
 worked until it didn't. Thanks to its use of enormous leverage, LTCM melted down
 spectacularly in 1998.
 Investors' real interest in the last half of the '90s was in common stocks, with the
 frenzy accelerating but narrowing to tech-media-telecom stocks around 1997 and
 narrowing further to Internet stocks in 1999. The "limitless potential" of these
 instruments was debunked in 2000, and the equity market went into its first three-year
 decline since the Great Crash of '29.
 Venture capital funds, blessed with triple-digit returns thanks to the fevered appetite
 for tech stocks, soared in the late 1990s and crashed soon thereafter.
 After their three-year slump, the loss of faith in common stocks caused investors to
 shift their hopes to hedge funds - "absolute return" vehicles expected to make money
 regardless of what went on in the world.
 With the bifurcation of strategies and managers into "beta-based" (market-driven) and
 "alpha-based" (skill-driven), investors concluded they could identify managers
 capable of alpha investing, emphasize it, perhaps synthesize it, and "port" or carry it
 to their portfolios in additive combinations.
 Private equity - sporting a new label free from the unpleasant history of "leveraged
 buyouts" - became another popular alternative to traditional stocks and bonds, and
 funds of $20 billion and more were raised at the apex in 2006-07.
 Wall Street came forward with a plan to package prosaic, reliable home mortgages
 into collateralized debt obligations - the next high-return, low-risk free lunch - with
 help from tranching, securitization and selling onward.
 The key to the purported success of this latest miracle lay in computer modeling. It
 quantified the risk, assuming that mortgage defaults would remain uncorrelated and
 benign as historically had been the case. But because careless mortgage lending
 practices unknowingly had altered the probabilities, the default experience turned out
 to be much worse than the models suggested or the modelers thought possible.
 Issuers of collateralized loan obligations bought corporate loans using the same
 processes that had been applied to CDOs. Their buying facilitated vast issuance of
 syndicated bank loans carrying low interest rates and few protective covenants, now
 called leveraged loans because the lending banks promptly sold off the majority.
 Options were joined by futures and swaps under a new heading: derivatives.
 Heralded for their ability to de-risk the financial system by shifting risk to those best
 able to bear it, derivatives led to vast losses and something new: counterparty risk.
 The common thread running through hedge funds, private equity funds and many
 other of these investment innovations was incentive compensation. Expected to
 align the interests of investment managers and their clients, in many cases it
 encouraged excessive risk taking.
 Computer modeling was further harnessed to create "value at risk" and other risk
 management tools designed to quantify how much would be lost if the investment
 environment soured. This fooled people into thinking risk was under control - a
 belief that, if acted on, has the potential to vastly increase risk.

 At the end of this progression we find an institutional investing world that bears little
 resemblance to the quaint cottage industry with which the chronology began more than
 forty years ago. Many of the developments served to increase risk or had other negative
 implications, for investors individually and for the economy overall. In the remainder of
 this memo, I'll discuss these trends and their ramifications.

 Something for Everyone

 One thing that caused a lot of people to lose money in the crisis was the popularization of
 investing. Over the last few decades, as I described in "The Long View" (January 2009),
 investing became widespread. "Less than 10% of adults owned stocks in the 1950s, in
 contrast to 40% today." (Economics and Portfolio Strategy, June 1, 2009). Star investors
 became household names and were venerated. "How-to" books were big sellers, and
 investors graced the covers of magazines. Television networks were created to cover
 investing 24/7, and Jim Cramer and the "Money Honey" became celebrities in their own
 right.

 It's interesting to consider whether this "democratization" of investing represented
 progress, because in things requiring special skill, it's not necessarily a plus when people
 conclude they can do them unaided. The popularization - with a big push from
 brokerage firms looking for business and media hungry for customers - was based on
 success stories, and it convinced people that "anyone can do it." Not only did this
 overstate the ease of investing, but it also vastly understated the danger. ("Risk" has
 become such an everyday word that it sounds harmless - as in "the risk of
 underperformance" and "risk-adjusted performance." Maybe we should switch to
 "danger" to remind people what's really involved.)

 To illustrate, I tend to pick on Wharton Professor Jeremy Siegel and his popular book
 "Stocks for the Long Run." Siegel's research was encyclopedic and supported some
 dramatic conclusions, perhaps foremost among them his showing that there's never been
 a 30-year period in which stocks didn't outperform cash, bonds and inflation. This
 convinced a lot of people to invest heavily in stocks. But even if his long-term premise
 eventually holds true, anyone who invested in the S&P 500 ten years ago - and is now
 down 20% - has learned that 30 years can be a long time to wait.

 The point is that not everyone is suited to manage his or her own investments, and not
 everyone should take on uncertain investments. The success of Bernard Madoff's Ponzi
 scheme shows that even people who are wealthy and presumed sophisticated can
 overlook risks. Might that be borne in mind the next time around?

 At Ease with Risk

 Risk is something every investor should think about constantly. We know we can't
 expect to make money without taking chances. The reason's simple: if there was a risk-

 free way to make good money - that is, a path to profit free from downside - everyone
 would pursue it without hesitation. That would bid up the price, bring down the return
 and introduce the risk that accompanies elevated prices.

 So yes, it's true that investors can't expect to make much money without taking risk.
 But that's not the same as saying risk taking is sure to make you money. As I said in
 "Risk" (January 2006), if risky investments always produced high returns, they wouldn't
 be risky.

 The extra return we hope to earn for holding stocks rather than bonds is called an equity
 risk premium. The additional promised yield on high yield bonds relative to Treasurys is
 called a credit risk premium. All along the upward-sloping capital market line, the
 increase in potential return represents compensation for bearing incremental risk. Except
 for those people who can generate "alpha" or access alpha managers, investors shouldn't
 plan on getting added return without bearing incremental risk. And for doing so, they
 should demand risk premiums.

 But at some point in the swing of the pendulum, people usually forget that truth and
 embrace risk taking to excess. In short, in bull markets - usually when things have been
 going well for a while - people tend to say, "Risk is my friend. The more risk I take, the
 greater my return will be. I'd like more risk, please."

 The truth is, risk tolerance is antithetical to successful investing. When people
 aren't afraid of risk, they'll accept risk without being compensated for doing so . . .
 and risk compensation will disappear. This is a simple and inevitable relationship.
 When investors are unworried and risk-tolerant, they buy stocks at high p/e ratios and
 private companies at high EBITDA multiples, and they pile into bonds despite narrow
 yield spreads and into real estate at minimal "cap rates."

 In the years leading up to the current crisis, it was "as plain as the nose on your
 face" that prospective returns were low and risk was high. In simple terms, there
 was too much money looking for a home, and too little risk aversion. Valuation
 parameters rose and prospective returns fell, and yet the amount of money available to
 managers grew steadily. Investors were attracted to risky deals, complex structures,
 innovative transactions and leveraged instruments. In each case, they seemed to accept
 the upside potential and ignore the downside.

 There are few things as risky as the widespread belief that there's no risk, because
 it's only when investors are suitably risk-averse that prospective returns will
 incorporate appropriate risk premiums. Hopefully in the future (a) investors will
 remember to fear risk and demand risk premiums and (b) we'll continue to be alert for
 times when they don't.

 Embracing Illiquidity

 Among the risks faced by the holder of an investment is the chance that if liquidity has
 dried up at a time when it has to be sold, he'll end up getting paid less than it's worth.
 Illiquidity is nothing but another source of risk, and it should be treated no
 differently:

 All else being equal, investors should prefer liquid investments and dislike illiquidity.
 Thus, before making illiquid investments, investors should ascertain that they're
 being rewarded for bearing that risk with a sufficient return premium.
 Finally, out of basic prudence, investors should limit the proportion of their portfolios
 committed to illiquid investments. There are some risks investors shouldn't take
 regardless of the return offered.

 But just as people can think of risk as a plus, so can they be attracted to illiquidity, and
 for basically the same reason. There is something called an illiquidity premium. It's the
 return increment investors should receive in exchange for accepting illiquidity. But it'll
 only exist if investors prefer liquidity. If they're indifferent, the premium won't be there.

 Part of the accepted wisdom of the pre-crisis years was that long-term institutional
 investors should load up on illiquid investments, capitalizing on their ability to be
 patient by garnering illiquidity premiums. In 2003-07, so many investors adopted this
 approach that illiquidity premiums became endangered. For example, as of the middle of
 2008, the average $1 billion-plus endowment is said to have had investments in and
 undrawn commitments to the main illiquid asset classes (private equity, real estate and
 natural resources) equal to half its net worth. Some had close to 90%.

 The willingness to invest in locked-up private investment funds is based on a
 number of "shoulds." Illiquid investments should deliver correspondingly higher
 returns. Closed-end investment funds should call down capital gradually. Cash
 distributions should be forthcoming from some funds, enabling investors to meet capital
 calls from others. And a secondary market should facilitate the sale of positions in
 illiquid funds, if needed, at moderate discounts from their fair value. But things that
 should happen often fail to happen. That's why investors should view potential premium
 returns skeptically and limit the risk they bear, including illiquidity.

 Comfortable with Complexity

 Investors' desire to earn money makes them willing to do things they haven't done
 before, especially if those things seem modern and sophisticated. Technological
 complexity and higher math can be seductive in and of themselves. And good times and
 rising markets encourage experimentation and erase skepticism. These factors allow
 Wall Street to sell innovative products in bull markets (and only in bull markets). But
 these innovations can be tested only in bear markets . . . and invariably they are.

 Many of the investment techniques that were embraced in 2003-07 represented
 quantitative innovations, and people seemed to think of that as an advantage rather
 than a source of potential risk. Investors were attracted to black-box quant funds,
 highly levered mortgage securities critically dependent on computer models, alchemical
 portable alpha, and risk management based on sketchy historical data. The dependability
 of these things was shaky, but the risks were glossed over. As Alan Greenspan wrote in
 The Wall Street Journal of March 11:

 It is now very clear that the levels of complexity to which market
 practitioners at the height of their euphoria tried to push risk-management
 techniques and products were too much for even the most sophisticated
 market players to handle properly and prudently.

 Warren Buffett put it in simpler terms at this year's Berkshire meeting. "If you need a
 computer or a calculator to make the calculation, you shouldn't buy it." And Charlie
 Munger added his own slant: "Some of the worst business decisions I've ever seen are
 those with future projections and discounts back. It seems like the higher mathematics
 with more false precision should help you, but it doesn't. They teach that in business
 schools because, well, they've got to do something."

 To close on this subject, I want to share a quote I recently came across from Albert
 Einstein. I've often argued that the key to successful investing lies in subjective
 judgments made by experienced, insightful professionals, not machinable processes,
 decision rules and algorithms. I love the way Einstein put it:

 Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that
 counts can be counted.

 Relying on Ratings

 My memos on the reasons for the crisis, like "Whodunit" (February 2008), show that
 there's more than enough blame to go around and lots of causes to cite. But if you boil it
 down, there was one indispensable ingredient in the process that led to trillions of
 dollars of losses: misplaced trust in credit ratings. The explanation is simple:

 Competitive pressure for profits caused financial institutions to try to keep up with
 the leaders. As is normal in good times, the profit leaders were those who used the
 most leverage.
 Thus institutions sought to maximize their leverage, but the rules required that the
 greatest leverage be used only with investments rated triple-A.
 A handful of credit rating agencies had been designated by the government as
 Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, despite their highly imperfect
 track records.
 The people who guard the financial henhouse often have a tough time keeping up
 with the foxes' innovations. Whereas traditional bond analysis was a relatively

 simple matter, derivatives and tiered securitizations were much more complex. This
 allowed rating agency employees to be manipulated by the investment banks'
 quantitatively sophisticated and highly compensated financial engineers.
 The rating agencies proved too naïve, inept and/or venal to handle their assigned task.
 Nevertheless, financial institutions took the ratings at face value, enabling them
 to pursue the promise of highly superior returns from supposedly riskless,
 levered-up mortgage instruments. This deal clearly was too good to be true, but
 the institutions leapt in anyway.

 It all started with those triple-A ratings. For his graduation from college this year,
 Andrew Marks wrote an insightful thesis on the behavior that gave rise to the credit
 crisis. I was pleased that he borrowed an idea from "Whodunit": "if it's possible to start
 with 100 pounds of hamburger and end up selling ten pounds of dog food, 40 pounds of
 sirloin and 50 pounds of filet mignon, the truth-in-labeling rules can't be working."
 That's exactly what happened when mortgage-related securities were rated.

 Investment banks took piles of residential mortgages - many of them subprime - and
 turned them into residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS). The fact that other
 tranches were subordinated and would lose first allowed the rating agencies to be cajoled
 into rating a lot of RMBS investment grade. Then RMBS were assembled into
 collateralized debt obligations, with the same process repeated. In the end, heaps of
 mortgages - each of which was risky - were turned into CDO debt, more than 90% of
 which was rated triple-A, meaning it was supposed to be almost risk-free.

 John Maynard Keynes said ". . . a speculator is one who runs risks of which he is aware
 and an investor is one who runs risks of which he is unaware." Speculators who bought
 the low end of the CDO barrel with their eyes open to the risk suffered total losses on a
 small part of their capital. But the highly levered, esteemed investing institutions that
 accepted the higher ratings without questioning the mortgage alchemy lost large amounts
 of capital, because of the ease with which they'd been able to lever holdings of triple-A
 and "super-senior" CDOs. Ronald Reagan said of arms treaties, "Trust, then verify." If
 only financial institutions had done the same.

 The rating agencies were diverted from their mission by a business model that made them
 dependent on security issuers for their revenues. This eliminated their objectivity and co-
 opted them into the rating-maximization process. Regardless of that happening, however,
 it's clear that the stability of our financial institutions never should have been allowed to
 rely so heavily on the competence of a few for-profit (and far-from-perfect) rating
 agencies. In the future, when people reviewing the crisis say, "If only they had . . . ,"
 the subject will often be credit ratings. Bottom line: investors must never again
 abdicate the essential task of assessing risk. It's their number-one job to perform
 thorough, skeptical analysis.

 The More You Bet . . .

 If I had to choose a single phrase to sum up investor attitudes in 2003-07, it would
 be the old Las Vegas motto: "The more you bet, the more you win when you win."
 Casino profits ride on getting people to bet more. In the financial markets just before the
 crisis, players needed no such encouragement. They wanted to bet more, and the
 availability of leverage helped them do so.

 One of the major trends embedded in the chronology on pages two and three was toward
 increasing the availability of leverage. Now, I've never heard of any of Oaktree's
 institutional clients buying on margin or taking out a loan to make investments. It might
 not be considered "normal" for fiduciaries, and tax-exempt investors would have to
 worry about Unrelated Business Taxable Income.

 None of us go out and buy Intel chips, but we've all seen commercials designed to get us
 to buy products with "Intel inside." In the same way, investors became increasingly
 able to buy investment products with leverage inside . . . that is, to participate in
 levered strategies rather than borrow explicitly to make investments. Think about
 these elements from my earlier list of investment developments:

 Investors who would never buy stocks on margin were able to invest in private equity
 funds that would buy companies on leverage of four times or more.
 The delayed and irregular nature of drawdowns caused people who had earmarked
 $100 for private investment funds to make commitments totaling $140.
 Options, swaps and futures - in fact, many derivatives - are nothing but ways for
 investors to access the return on large amounts of assets with little money down.
 Many hedge funds used borrowings or derivatives to access the returns on more
 assets than their capital would allow them to buy.
 When people wanted to invest $100 in markets with skill-derived return bolted on,
 "portable alpha" had them invest $90 in hedge funds with perceived alpha and the rest
 in futures covering $100 worth of the passive market index. This gave them a stake
 in the performance of $190 of assets for every $100 of capital.

 Clearly, each of these techniques exposed investors to the gains or losses on
 increased amounts of assets. If that's not leverage, what is? In fact, an article entitled
 "Harvard Endowment Chief Is Earning Degree in Crisis Management" in The New York
 Times of February 21 said of Harvard, "The endowment was squeezed partly because it
 had invested more than its assets . . ." (emphasis added). I find this statement quite
 remarkable, and yet no one has remarked on it to me.

 It shouldn't be surprising that people engaging in these levered strategies made more than
 others when the market rose. But 2008 showed the flip side of that equation in action. In
 the future, investors should consider whether they really want to lever their capital
 or just invest the amount they have.

 Sharing the Wealth

 Apart from the increasing use of leverage, another trend that characterized the five years
 before the crisis was the widespread imposition of incentive fees.

 In the 1960s, at the start of my chronology, only hedge funds commanded incentive fees,
 and there were too few for most people to know or care about. But fee arrangements that
 can be simplified as "two-and-twenty" flowered with private equity in the 1980s,
 distressed debt, opportunistic real estate and venture capital funds in the 1990s, and
 hedge funds in the 2000s. Soon they were everyplace.

 Here are my basic thoughts on this sort of arrangement. (Oaktree receives incentive
 compensation on roughly half its assets; my objection isn't with regard to the fees
 themselves, but rather the way they've been applied.)

 It seems obvious that incentive fees should go only to managers with the skill
 needed to add enough to returns to more than offset the fees - other than
 through the mere assumption of incremental risk. For example, after a high yield
 bond manager's .50% fee, a 12% gross return becomes 11.5% net. A credit hedge
 fund charging a 2% management fee and 20% of the profits would have to earn a
 16.375% gross return to net 11.5%. That's 36% more return. How many managers
 in a given asset class can generate this incremental 36% other than through an
 increase in risk? A few? Perhaps. The majority? Never.

 Thus, incentive fee arrangements should be exceptional, but they're not. These
 fees didn't go to just the proven managers (or the ones whose returns came from skill
 rather than beta); they went to everyone. If you raised your hand in 2003-07 and said
 "I'm a hedge fund manager," you got a few billion to manage at two-and-twenty,
 even if you didn't have a record of successfully managing money over periods that
 included tough times.

 The run-of-the-mill manager's ease of obtaining incentive fees was enhanced each
 time a top manager capped a fund. As I wrote in "Safety First . . . But Where?"
 (April 2001), "When the best are closed, the rest will get funded."

 In fact, whereas two-and-twenty was unheard-of in the old days, it became the norm
 in 2003-07. This enabled a handful of managers with truly outstanding records to
 demand profit shares ranging up to 50%.

 Clients erred in using the term "alignment of interests" to describe the effect of
 incentive compensation on their relationships with managers. Allowing managers to
 share in the upside can bring forth best efforts, but it can also encourage risk bearing
 instead of risk consciousness. Most managers just don't have enough money to invest
 in their funds such that loss of it could fully balance their potential fees and upside
 participation. Instead of alignment, then, incentive compensation must be viewed

 largely as a "heads we win; tails you lose" arrangement. Clearly, it must be
 accorded only to the few managers who can be trusted with it.

 Finally, the responsibility for overpaying doesn't lie with the person who asks
 for excessive compensation, but rather with the one who pays it. How many
 potential LPs ever said, "He may be a great manager, but he's not worth that fee." I
 think most applied little price discipline, as they were driven by the need to fill asset
 class allocations and/or the fear that if they said no, they might miss out on a good
 thing (more on this subject later).

 I'm asked all the time nowadays what I expect to happen with investment manager
 compensation. First, I remind people that what should happen and what will happen are
 two different things. Then I make my main point: there should be much more
 differentiation. Whereas in past years everyone's fees were generous and pretty
 much the same, the post-2007 period is providing an acid test that will show who
 helped their clients and who didn't. Appropriate compensation adjustments should
 follow.

 Managers who actually helped their clients before and during this difficult period - few
 in number, I think - will deserve to be very well compensated, and their services could be
 in strong demand. The rest should receive smaller fees or be denied incentive
 arrangements, and some might turn to other lines of work. Oaktree hopes to be among
 the former group. We'll see.

 Ducking Responsibility

 The inputs used by a business to make its products are its costs. The money it receives
 for its output are its revenues. The difference between revenues and costs are its profits.
 At the University of Chicago, I was taught that by maximizing profits - that is,
 maximizing the excess of output over input - a company maximizes its contribution to
 society. This is among the notions that have been dispelled, exposing the imperfections
 of the free-market system. (Hold on; I'm not saying it's a bad system, just not perfect.)

 When profit maximization is exalted to excess, ethics and responsibility can go into
 decline, a phenomenon that played a substantial role in getting us where we are. The
 pursuit of short-term profit can lead to actions that are counterproductive for others, for
 society and for the long run. For example:

 A money manager's desire to add to assets under management, and thus profits, can
 lead him to take in all the money he can. But when asset prices and risks are high and
 prospective returns are low, this clearly isn't good for his clients.
 Selling financial products to anyone who'll buy them, as opposed to those for whom
 they're right, can put investors at unnecessary risk.
 And cajoling rating agencies into assigning the highest rating to debt backed by
 questionable collateral can put whole economies in jeopardy, as we've seen.

 One of the concepts that governed my early years, but about which I've heard little in
 recent years, is "fiduciary duty." Fiduciary duty is the obligation to look out for the
 welfare of others, as opposed to maximizing for yourself. It can be driven by ethics or by
 fear of legal consequences; either way, it tends to cause caution to be emphasized.

 When considering a course of action, we should ask, "Is it right?" Not necessarily
 the cleverest practice or the most profitable, but the right thing? The people I think
 of perverting the mortgage securitization process never wondered whether they were
 getting an appropriate rating, but whether it was the highest possible. Not whether they
 were doing the right thing for clients or society, but whether they were wringing
 maximum proceeds out of a pile of mortgage collateral and thus maximizing profits for
 their employers and bonuses for themselves.

 A lot of misdeeds have been blamed on excessive emphasis on short-term results in
 setting compensation. The more compensation stresses the long run, the more it creates
 big-picture benefits. Long-term profits do more good - for companies, for business
 overall and for society - than does short-term self-interest.

 Focusing on the Wrong Risk

 The more I've thought about it over the last few months, the more I've concluded
 that investors face two main risks: (1) the risk of losing money and (2) the risk of
 missing opportunity. Investors can eliminate one or the other, but not both. More
 commonly, they must consider how to balance the two. How they do so will have a great
 impact on their results. This is the old dilemma - fear or greed? - that people talk about
 so much. It's part of the choice between offense and defense that I often stress (see, for
 example, "What's Your Game Plan?" September 2003).

 The problem is that investors often fail to strike an appropriate balance between the two
 risks. In a pattern that exemplifies the swing of the pendulum from optimistic to
 pessimistic and back, investors regularly oscillate between extremes at which they
 consider one to the exclusion of the other, not a mixture of the two.

 One of the ways I try to get a sense for what's going on is by imagining the conversations
 investors are having with each other . . . or with themselves. In 2003-07, with most
 investors worried only about achieving returns, I think the conversation went like this:
 "I'd better not make less than my peers. Am I behaving as aggressively as I should? Am
 I using as much leverage as my competitor? Have I shifted enough from stocks and
 bonds to alternatives, or am I being an old fogey? If my commitments to private equity
 are 140% of the amount I actually want to invest, is that enough, or should I do more?"

 Few people seemed to worry about losses. Or if they were worried, they played anyway,
 fearing that if they didn't, they'd be left behind. That must be what drove Citigroup's
 Chuck Prince when he said, "as long as the music's playing, you've got to get up and

 dance. We're still dancing." The implication's clear: No worries; high prices. No
 risk aversion; no risk premiums. Certainly that describes the markets in 2003-07.

 In the fourth quarter of 2008, when asset prices were collapsing, I imagined a very
 different conversation from that of 2003-07, with most investors saying, "I don't care if I
 never make another dollar in the market; I just don't want to lose any more. Get me out!"
 Attitudes toward the two risks were still unbalanced, but in the opposite direction.

 Just as risk premiums disappear when risk is ignored, so can prospective returns soar
 when risk aversion is excessive. In late 2008, economic fundamentals were terrible;
 technical conditions consisted of forced selling and an absence of buyers; and market
 psychology melted down. Risk aversion predominated, and fear of missing out
 disappeared. These are the conditions under which assets are most likely to be available
 for purchase at prices way below their fair value. They're also the conditions in which
 most people go on buying strikes.

 In the future, investors should do a better job of balancing the fear of losing money
 and the fear of missing out. My response is simple: Good luck with that.

 Pursuing Maximization

 When markets are rising and investors are obsessed with the fear of missing out, the
 desire is for maximum returns. Here's the inner conversation I imagine: "I need a return
 of 8% a year. But I'd rather have 10%. 14% would be great, and the possibility of 16%
 warrants adding to my risk. It's worth using leverage for a shot at 20%, and with twice as
 much leverage, I might get 24%."

 In other words, more is better. And of course it is . . . except that to pursue higher
 returns, you have to give up something. That something is safety. But in hot times, no
 one worries about losing money, just missing out. So they try to maximize.

 There should be a point at which investors say, "I need 8%, and it would be great if I
 could get 16%. But to try, I would have to do things that expose me to excessive loss.
 I'll settle for a safer 10% instead." I've labeled this concept "good-enough returns."
 It's based on the belief that the possibility of more isn't always better. There should
 be a point at which investors decline to take more risk in the pursuit of more return,
 because they're satisfied with the return they expect and would rather achieve that
 with high confidence than try for more at the risk of falling short (or losing money).

 Most investors will probably say that in 2003-07, they didn't blindly pursue
 maximization; it was the other guys. But someone did it, and we're living with the
 consequences. I like it better when society balances risk and return rather than
 trying to maximize. Less gain, perhaps, but also less pain.

 * * *

 "Apropos of nothing," as my mother used to say, I'm going to use the opportunity
 provided by this memo to discuss market conditions and the outlook. On the plus side:

 We've heard a lot recently about "green shoots": mostly cases where things have
 stopped getting worse or the rate of decline is slowing. A few areas have shown
 actual improvement, such as consumer confidence and durable goods orders. It's
 important when you consider these improvements, however, to bear in mind that
 when you get deep into a recession, the comparisons are against depressed periods,
 and thus easier.
 It's heartening to see the capital markets open again, such that banks can recapitalize
 and borrowers can extend maturities and delever. Noteworthily, Michael Milken and
 Jonathan Simons wrote in The Wall Street Journal of June 20 that, "Global
 corporations have raised nearly $2 trillion in public and private markets this year . . ."
 Investor opinion regarding markets and the government's actions has grown more
 positive, and as Bruce Karsh says, "Armageddon is off the table." (He and I both felt
 6-9 months ago that a financial system meltdown absolutely couldn't be ruled out.)

 These positives are significant, but there also are many unresolved negatives:

 Business is still terrible. Sales trends are poor. Where profits are up, it's often due to
 cost-cutting, not growth. (Remember, one man's economy measure is another's job
 loss - not always a plus for the overall picture.)
 Unemployment is still rising, and with incomes shrinking, savings rising as a
 percentage of shrinking incomes, and credit scarcer, it's hard to see whose spending
 will power a recovery.
 The outlook for residential and, particularly, commercial real estate remains poor,
 with implications for further write-offs on the part of the banks. Ditto for credit card
 receivables.
 Many companies are likely to experience debt refinancing challenges, defaults,
 bankruptcies and restructurings.
 Developments such as rising interest rates and rising oil prices have the power to
 impede a recovery.
 Finally, no one can say with confidence what will be the big-picture ramifications of
 trillions of dollars of federal deficit spending, or the states' fiscal crises.

 I'm not predicting that these things will turn out badly, merely citing potential
 negatives that may not be fully reflected in today's higher asset prices. My greatest
 concern surrounds the fact that we're in the middle of an unprecedented crisis, brought on
 by never-seen-before financial behavior, against which novel remedies are being
 attempted. And yet many people seem confident that a business-as-usual recovery lies
 ahead. They're applying normal lag times and extrapolating normal decline/recovery
 relationships. The words of the late Amos Tversky aptly represent my view: "It's
 frightening to think that you might not know something, but more frightening to

 think that, by and large, the world is run by people who have faith that they know
 exactly what's going on."

 Peter Bernstein, a towering intellect who sadly passed away a month ago, made some
 important contributions to the way I think about investing. Perhaps foremost among
 them was his trenchant observation that, "Risk means more things can happen than will
 happen." Investors today may think they know what lies ahead, but they should at
 least acknowledge that risk is high, the range of possibilities is wider than it was
 ever thought to be, and there are a few that could be particularly unpleasant.

 Unlike 2003-07 when no one worried about risk, or late 2008 when few investors cared
 about opportunity, the two seem to be in better balance given the revival of risk taking
 this year. Thus the markets have recovered, with most of them up 30% or more from
 their bottoms (debt in December and stocks in March).

 If you and I had spoken six months ago, we might have reflected on the significant stock
 market rallies that occurred during the decade-long Great Depression, including a 67%
 gain in the Dow in 1933. How uncalled-for those rallies appear in retrospect. But now
 we've had one of our own.

 Clearly, improved psychology and risk tolerance have played a big part in the
 recent rally. These things have strengthened even as economic fundamentals
 haven't, and that could be worrisome. (On June 23, talking about general resilience -
 not investor attitudes - President Obama said the American people ". . .are still more
 optimistic than the facts alone would justify.") On the other hand, there's good reason to
 believe that at their lows, security prices had understated the merits. So are prices ahead
 of fundamentals today, or have they merely recovered from "too low" to "in balance"?
 There's no way to know for sure.

 Unlike the fourth quarter of last year - when assets were depressed by terrible
 fundamentals, technicals and psychology - they're no longer at giveaway prices. Neither
 are they clearly overvalued. Maybe we should say "closer to fair."

 With price and value in reasonable balance, the course of security prices will largely
 be determined by future economic developments that defy prediction. Thus I find it
 hard to be highly opinionated at this juncture. Few things are compelling sells here,
 but I wouldn't be a pedal-to-the-metal buyer either. On balance, I think better buying
 opportunities lie ahead.


Memo: Touchstones.

In the two-plus years since the onset of the financial crisis, it's been a regular theme of mine that
we should look back, identify the causes and learn from them. I've tackled this assignment in a
number of memos and a variety of ways. Now, despite the fact that you've heard much of this
from me before, I'm going to try to pull it all together, using the quotations, adages and images
that I feel best capture the essence of what we've been through. When I think back, these are the
ones that stand out.

"Greed Is Good"

There's no debating which line from the film Wall Street is the most memorable. It's hard to
forget the image of slicked-back takeover artist Gordon Gekko urging on his troops, invoking the
positive power of self-interest. What he meant by "greed is good," of course, was that greed - or
self-interest, or the profit motive - is what drives people and companies operating in a free-
market setting to strive for more and better, and thus to work hard and optimally allocate
resources. It's the force that motivates Adam Smith's "invisible hand" and carries economies to
increased output and higher standards of living.

Among the many pendulum-like phenomena we occasionally witness is the swing in people's
willingness to rely on the free market. First they trust the market to come up with solutions.
Then the shortcomings of those solutions are laid bare and there's a call for regulation. Then the
folly of government involvement becomes evident and people want the free market back, and so
forth. Because neither extreme is perfect, the oscillation between them goes on. Governments
can't run economies or companies. But it's equally true that in a free market, the rules will
occasionally be stretched and participants harmed.

In a free market, things will inevitably go past the optimal to the extreme. When they swing
back, the retreat can be painful. Thus, if we're going to rely on the market to settle things, we
have to be willing to accept the consequences.

In the pre-crisis years, the free market was revered and deferred to, and regulation was thought of
as little more than a potential impediment to the market's processes. (An article I can't locate in
my pile of clippings beautifully explained the dearth of government action: "That's the kind of
regulation you get from an administration that doesn't believe in regulation.") That attitude
permitted financial institutions to take actions and bear risks that turned out to be unwise,
unprofitable and unsustainable. Their strategies took them to the brink of disaster in 2008.

In a truly free market, Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Citibank, AIG, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
others likely would have gone bankrupt. Those bankruptcies would have been quite instructive,

but also quite painful. If the world is unwilling to live with such lessons from time to time - and
if some institutions are considered to be "too big to fail" for society's purposes - then free
markets and self-interest have to be restrained. Greed may be good, but it can be permitted to
run free only up to a point.

Nothing's More Risky Than a Widespread Belief That There's No Risk

The recent crisis came about primarily because investors partook of novel, complex and
dangerous things, in greater amounts than ever before. They took on too much leverage and
committed too much capital to illiquid investments. Why did they do these things? It all
happened because investors believed too much, worried too little, and thus took too much
risk. In short, they believed they were living in a low-risk world.

In 2006 and early 2007, for instance, we heard a lot about the "wall of liquidity" that was coming
toward us from China and the oil producing countries, a flow that could be counted on to provide
capital and raise asset prices non-stop. Likewise, we were told (a) the Fed had tamed the
business cycle through its adroit management, (b) securitization, tranching and disintermediation
had reduced risk by putting it where it could best be handled, and (c) the "Greenspan put" could
always be counted on to bail out investors who made mistakes. These and other things were said
to have lowered the risk level worldwide.

Belief that risk has been banished is a key element in allowing people to engage in practices
they would otherwise view as risky, and in permitting assets to be bid up to prices that
would clearly be too high in a world perceived to involve risk.

 . . . former Fed Chairman Paul A. Volcker noted that one of the causes of the
 financial crisis "was the ultimately explosive combination of compensation
 practices that provided enormous incentives to take risks" just as new financial
 innovations "seemed to offer assurance - falsely, as it turned out - that those risks
 had been diffused." (The Wall Street Journal, September 18, 2009)

Worry and its relatives, distrust, skepticism and risk aversion, are essential ingredients in a
safe financial system. To paraphrase a saying about the usefulness of bankruptcy, fear of loss is
to capitalism as fear of hell is to Catholicism. Worry keeps risky loans from being made,
companies from taking on more debt than they can service, portfolios from becoming overly
concentrated, and unproven schemes from turning into popular manias. When worry and risk
aversion are present as they should be, investors will question, investigate and act prudently.
Risky investments either won't be undertaken or will be required to provide adequate
compensation in terms of anticipated return.

But only when investors are sufficiently risk averse will markets offer adequate risk
premiums. When worry is in short supply, risky borrowers and questionable schemes will have
easy access to capital, and the financial system will become precarious. Too much money will
chase the risky and the new, driving up asset prices and driving down prospective returns and
safety.

 For a market to function, those who invest and lend in that market must believe
 that their money is actually at risk. (President Obama, September 14, 2009)

Clearly, in the months and years leading up to the crisis, few participants worried as much as
they're supposed to.

Soros's Theory of Reflexivity

Some of the biggest problems arise because market participants think of their environment as a
static arena in which they act. What they miss - to their frequent detriment - is that their actions
alter the environment, causing the results to differ from their expectations.

George Soros has written and spoken most articulately about the ability of investors' actions to
change the environment. He calls this process "reflexivity."

 The generally accepted theory is that financial markets tend towards equilibrium,
 and on the whole, discount the future correctly. I operate using a different theory,
 according to which financial markets cannot possibly discount the future correctly
 because they do not merely discount the future; they help to shape it. In certain
 circumstances, financial markets can affect the so-called fundamentals which they
 are supposed to reflect. When that happens, markets enter into a state of dynamic
 disequilibrium and behave quite differently from what would be considered
 normal by the theory of efficient markets. Such boom/bust sequences do not arise
 very often, but when they do, they can be very disruptive, exactly because they
 affect the fundamentals of the economy. . . . (George Soros, MIT Department of
 Economics World Economy Laboratory Conference, Washington, D.C., April 26,

My son Andrew, now starting his investment career, has provided an illustration of reflexivity at
work that's clear and topical. For several years prior to the crisis, the desire for high returns with
low risk (what else is new?) created strong demand for mortgage-based investment products such
as RMBS and CDOs. Underpinning it all was the fact that there had never been a nationwide
decline in home prices, and thus participants were confident that geographic diversification
would render levered mortgage pools safe, warranting triple-A ratings for most of the resulting
securities. Rising demand for these products required an increasing volume of underlying
mortgages. This need caused lending standards to be weakened and loans to be provided to
home buyers with dubious creditworthiness. Easy financing allowed buyers to bid up home
prices to levels that exceeded the homes' realistic values and made it tough for borrowers to
make their mortgage payments. When the perpetual-motion machine of house appreciation
ground to a halt in 2007, the combination of too-high prices and record mortgage defaults
resulted in the first nationwide decline in home prices. Thus, in the end, the belief that an
asset was safe led to investor behavior that made it unsafe. That's reflexivity.

In 2003-07, as described above, investors considered the world a low-risk place. Thus they
rushed to buy assets they found attractive, borrowing in order to buy more when their own
capital was exhausted. They expected purchases made with cheap leverage to produce high

profits with low risk. But their buying drove up both the cost of the assets and the riskiness
of the environment, transforming their "low-risk" strategies into high-risk ones. The
consequences have become clear.

Greenspan and Bubbles

One of the most obvious ways in which investors change the environment is through the creation
of asset bubbles, like the one that popped in the summer of 2007. In a process that invariably
looks silly after the fact, they reach the conclusion that an investment is a sure winner, usually on
the basis of simplistic platitudes that simply can't hold up under scrutiny. These include
"Internet stocks must rise because these companies are going to change the world," "real estate
(or gold) is a good hedge against inflation," "home prices can never decline nationwide," "oil
will appreciate because it's being consumed faster than it's being found," and "alternative
investments (or hedge funds or private equity funds) hold the key to meeting investment goals."

Because of the strength attributed to these platitudes, investors go on to conclude that the
investments they support will be profitable regardless of the price at which they're undertaken.
How can this be right? It's not possible that something can be a good investment regardless
of the price paid. But when a logical-seeming platitude is adopted by the stampeding herd,
that belief is the result. That's how we get bubbles.

Bubble thinking is irrational, given that it's built on a belief that there's no price too high. This
goes on to manifest itself in a variety of ways. In the 1970s, when hyper-inflation was rampant
and interest rates were astronomical, people concluded that no matter the interest rate paid,
borrowing to buy "inflation protected" assets like real estate would be profitable. That's bubble
thinking.

In my forty-year career, I've seen bubbles in growth stocks, small stocks, oil stocks,
emerging market stocks and tech stocks, as well as such surefire winners as silver, homes
and buyouts. In each instance, there was a logical underlying rationale for the desirability
of the subject assets, but people overlooked the possibility that bubble thinking had raised
prices to dangerous levels.

Alan Greenspan greatly influenced economic and market developments during his term as Fed
Chairman from 1987 to 2006, and his record on the subject of bubbles was poor. He set the
world on its ear in 1996 by railing against "irrational exuberance" as the Dow Jones Index soared
past the 6,000 level, but he was quiet thereafter, rationalizing appreciation well beyond 10,000
based on gains in productivity. Here's his position on bubbles:

 . . . bubbles generally are perceptible only after the fact. To spot a bubble in
 advance requires a judgment that hundreds of thousands of informed investors
 have it all wrong. While bubbles that burst are scarcely benign, the consequences
 need not be catastrophic for the economy. (June 17, 1999)

 . . . it was far from obvious that bubbles, even if identified early, could be
 preempted short of the central bank inducing a substantial contraction in economic

 activity - the very outcome we would be seeking to avoid. Prolonged periods of
 expansion promote a greater rational willingness to take risks, a pattern very
 difficult to avert by a modest tightening of monetary policy . . . we recognized that,
 despite our suspicions, it was very difficult to definitively identify a bubble until
 after the fact. . . . the idea that the collapse of a bubble can be softened by pricking
 it in advance is almost surely an illusion. (August 30, 2002)

Thus it was his view that (a) bubbles can only be detected in retrospect, not as they occur, (b)
even if detected, bubbles are hard to deflate benignly, (c) rather than deflate them, bubbles can
be managed, and (d) deflating bubbles isn't the job of the Fed. This relaxed position on bubbles
can easily be seen as having abetted their growth. For example:

 . . . testimony before Congress last week refutes, once and for all, the existence of
 an alleged housing market "bubble," said chief economists of the National
 Association of Home Builders. . . . "The time has come to put this issue to rest,"
 said NAHB Chief Economist David Seiders. "The nation's home builders have
 said it, the Realtors have said it, and now Alan Greenspan has said it once again,
 in no uncertain terms: there is no such thing as a current or impending house
 price bubble."

 Asked about the issue during his testimony, Greenspan said, "We've looked at the
 bubble question and we've concluded that it is most unlikely." He attributed
 recent "sizeable gains" in home prices to "the effects on demand of low mortgage
 rates, immigration and shortages of buildable land." (Business Wire, July 22,
 2002, emphasis added)

Ignoring bubbles is a special case of ignoring risk in general. The philosopher George Santayana
is famous for having said, "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."
Likewise, those who fail to learn from past bubbles are bound to suffer in the bursting of
new ones.

The More You Bet, the More You Win When You Win

In the years just prior to the crash, obliviousness to risk encouraged numerous forms of risky
behavior. One of the greatest was the use of leverage to increase returns, a phenomenon that
became widespread.

People make investments on the basis of positive expected returns. When the cost of
borrowing is below the expected return, using leverage appears certain to magnify the gain.
Thus the Las Vegas maxim that heads this section comes into play, and it's that kind of
thinking that gives leverage its seductive power.

But there's so much more to leverage than that, and unfortunately the rest is learned only when
things go badly. Leverage doesn't make an investment better; it merely magnifies the gains and
losses. Leverage is what James Grant of Grant's Interest Rate Observer calls "money of the
mind," meaning it can vanish if the lender is able to take his money back. And any combination

of fundamental difficulty, falling asset prices, reduced market liquidity, collateral value tests and
margin calls can be the ruination of investors employing leverage. That's what befell many in
the fourth quarter of 2008.

In 2003-07, interest rates brought low by the Fed, modest demands for risk premiums on the part
of unworried investors, and financial institutions' competition to lend conspired to make low-
cost leverage readily available. That cheap financing (a) convinced people that high leverage
was the route to increased returns (even from low-yielding underlying investments), (b) armed
all parties for a bidding war for assets, and (c) made people rush to borrow and buy before the
river of financing ran dry. The result was a buying spree of massive proportions, the bill for
which - in terms of debt maturities, often unpayable - will come due in the next few years.

Like just about everything else in investing, leverage is neither good nor bad per se. Used
at the right time, in judicious amounts, to purchase low-priced assets, it's a good thing. But
that's not the story of the pre-crisis years. And that's a big reason for the trouble we've
had since.

"Risk Means More Things Can Happen Than Will Happen"

The above quote from Elroy Dimson of the London Business School helps bring risk into focus.
Risk has been the subject of excessive complication and sophistication, but Dimson's simple
formulation makes clear what it's all about.

Investing consists entirely of dealing with the future. To do that, people must form opinions
about what lies ahead. But few things are more potentially harmful than projections. I've
collected a lot of quotations on this subject. Here are my two favorites, but I have a million
more:

 We have two classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who don't
 know they don't know.

 John Kenneth Galbraith

 It's frightening to think that you might not know something, but more frightening
 to think that, by and large, the world is run by people who have faith that they
 know exactly what's going on.

 Amos Tversky

One of the errors committed in 2003-07 - forming a cornerstone of the crisis - consisted of
believing too much in the ability to predict the future. Investors, risk managers, financial
institution executives, rating agencies and regulators trusted forecasts, extrapolations and
computer models. This made them comfortable with risk, always a dangerous arrangement.

The "I know" school of investing has received frequent mention in my memos (e.g., "Us and
Them," May 7, 2004). Its members - money managers, Wall Street strategists and media

pundits - believe that there's a single future, it is knowable in advance, and they're among the
people who know it. They're eager to tell you what the future holds, and equally willing to
overlook the inaccuracy of their past predictions. What they repeatedly ignore is the fact that
(a) the future possibilities cover a broad range, (b) some of them - the "black swans" -
can't even be imagined in advance, and (c) even if it's possible to know which one outcome
is the most likely, the others have a substantial combined probability of occurring instead.

Thus one key question each investor has to answer is whether he views the future as
knowable or unknowable. An investor who feels he knows what the future holds will act
assertively: making directional bets, concentrating positions, levering holdings and
counting on future growth - in other words, doing things that in the absence of
foreknowledge would increase risk. On the other hand, someone who feels he doesn't know
what the future holds will act quite differently: diversifying, hedging, levering less (or not
at all), emphasizing value today over growth tomorrow, staying high in the capital
structure, and generally girding for a variety of possible outcomes.

The first group of investors did much better in the years leading up to the crash. But the second
group was better prepared when the crash unfolded, and they had more capital available (and
more-intact psyches) with which to profit from purchases made at its nadir.

Never Forget the 6'-Tall Man Who Drowned Crossing the Stream That Was 5' Deep on Average

The range of possibilities - the environments with which we must deal - invariably will include
some bad ones. We must prepare for them, and the unavoidable prerequisite for doing so is
being aware of them. Following from the section above, the key is to view the future as a
range of possibilities, not a reliable point estimate.

How does the successful investor prepare for the uncertain future? By building in what
Warren Buffett calls "margin for error" or "margin of safety." It's having this margin
that enables us to do okay even when things don't go our way.

If an investor prepares for a single future and attempts to maximize under the assumption that his
view will prove right, he'll be in big trouble if it doesn't. The investor who backs off from the
maximizing position is likely to do better when negative surprises occur. Thus it's essential to
realize a few things:

 It's not sufficient to think about surviving "on average" - investment survival has to be
 achieved every day, under all circumstances.
 The ability to survive under adverse conditions comes from a portfolio's margin for error.
 Ensuring sufficient margin for error and attempting to maximize returns are
 incompatible.

The use of leverage illustrates a special case of the above. Leverage increases the gains if you
succeed and the losses if you fail. Thus leverage increases the probability of maximizing under
favorable outcomes and reduces your margin of safety under unfavorable ones. In 2008,
leveraged loans that ultimately proved to be money-good declined in price for psychological and

technical reasons. Loan investors who were able to hold on recovered, but many who had
bought with leverage couldn't do so. They drowned in the deep part of the stream.

Chuck Prince on Dancing

A quotation from the former CEO of Citigroup contains just 30 words, but it could serve as a
case study regarding the events leading up to the crash:

 When the music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will be complicated. But as
 long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance. We're still dancing.
 (Charles Prince, July 9, 2007)

I suspected in mid-2007 that this quotation would end up being emblematic of the cycle. It's
been replayed many times, but usually without the first dozen words. Prince seems to have been
more aware of what was going on than people give him credit for. He may have sensed the bank
was on thin ice in lending and levering, like the rest. The problem wasn't that he overlooked the
danger; the problem was that he felt he had to participate anyway.

One of the dilemmas faced by businesses is that they can conclude that they have no choice but
to take part in dangerous behavior. Usually this is because they're unwilling to cede market
share. On October 5, Leo Strine, Vice Chancellor of the Delaware Court of Chancery, wrote as
follows in The New York Times Dealbook:

 . . . the ability of any particular firm to resist imitating the overly risky, but law-
 compliant behavior of competitors will be compromised to the extent that
 managers face criticism or even removal for not keeping up with so-called
 industry leaders whose high, short-term returns have pleased a stock market filled
 with short-term investors looking for alpha.

In "The Race to the Bottom" (February 14, 2007), I described the dangerous behavior that
providers of capital engage in when the competition becomes heated. The formula is one of the
simplest: when there's too much money chasing too few deals, asset prices are driven up,
prospective returns are driven down, and risk rises.

Those seven little words - too much money chasing too few deals - represent an absolute death
knell for the availability of good returns earned with safety. It should be possible to know when
this is the case, as Prince did, but people tend to join in nevertheless. Often this is true because,
even if they recognize the danger, they're also aware that "being too far ahead of your time is
indistinguishable from being wrong," and they don't want to be out of step.

The way I see it, investors face two main risks: the risk of losing money and the risk of
missing out. Although investors should balance the two, in reality this is yet another of those
arcs along which the pendulum swings regularly between extremes.

The disposition of a market - the position of the pendulum - can be inferred from the behavior of
participants regarding these two risks. In the years just before the crash, encouraged by the

purported risk-reducers described on page 2 above, investors generally ignored the risk of loss.
In those heady times, they feared only missing opportunities, looking too conservative, and
losing business. This combination spurred them to employ aggressive strategies, innovative
products, leverage and illiquidity. When most people think the worst imaginable outcome is
failing to participate fully in gains, the result is risky behavior. They're inevitably
reminded that there's worse, but it can take a long time to happen.

"It's Only When the Tide Goes Out That You Find Out Who's Been Swimming Naked"

When I came across the above quotation from Warren Buffett, I borrowed it for "It's All Good"
(July 16, 2007) and later devoted an entire memo to it ("The Tide Goes Out," March 18, 2008).
Buffett's way of saying things combines brevity, humor and pinpoint accuracy, and this is a great
example.

Financial innovation was a major component in building the base for the crisis. As I've said
before, popularization of new investment products is possible only in rising markets, with
their suspension of skepticism, easy access to money, and dearth of trying moments. On
the other hand, innovations are only tested in falling markets, and few pass the ultimate
test. Californians' homes may contain construction flaws, but we only learn about them during
earthquakes. Likewise, a fatally flawed investment product can easily survive until it's tested in
a bear market.

The extensive investment innovation of 2003-07 was driven by the poor performance of stocks in
2000-02 and the low yields available on high grade bonds. A large number of new products and
strategies emerged, increasing in popularity in a salutary environment. Few investors were
troubled by the products' dependence on high leverage or suddenly commonplace triple-A
ratings, or by the fact that they hadn't been tested in tough times.

It's not surprising that bull market developments were defrocked in the tougher times of 2007-
08, but it's somewhat shocking how many examples there are. It turned out that:

 losses on investments involving leverage, illiquidity or risky assets could be much worse than
 the "worst case" that had been predicted,
 beta had been confused for alpha, just as leverage had for value added,
 there was nothing absolute about "absolute return," and "market neutral" strategies were
 correlated with the market,
 the "golden age of private equity" had been a function of easy money, not bargain purchases,
 sharing the upside with investment managers isn't sufficient to align their interests with those
 of their clients, and
 things that "should happen" often don't.

While an extreme case, the story of Bernie Madoff presents an apt example of this phenomenon.
Madoff's fictitious returns weren't very high, but they were remarkably steady; thus his clients
thought of his fund as a high-yielding T-bill. This made it easy for the skilled Ponzi schemer to
satisfy the few withdrawal requests with cash from eager new investors. This could have
continued ad infinitum if not for the market collapse in 2008. Madoff's investors had complete

confidence in him, but they couldn't get money they needed from other funds that had put up
gates, or they didn't want to sell other investments that, unlike Bernie's, were showing big
losses. So Madoff received requests for $7 billion of withdrawals, an amount he simply couldn't
raise from new suckers, and his nakedness became apparent.

The Madoff story exemplifies the ability of ill-founded investments to prosper in bull markets,
and the role of bear markets in exposing them. Now that the tide has gone out, many pre-
crisis miracles have been exposed as non-value based, overly dependent on prosperity and
easy money, pro-cyclical, over-hyped or just plain flawed. Hopefully next time, investors
will give more thought to how their bull-market dalliances will fare when the tide goes out.

The Opposite of a Bubble

On the heels of the lessons regarding the run-up to the crash, the latter part of 2008 provided
several lessons about behavior in times of crisis. With the fundamental outlook terrible,
psychology depressed and technical conditions featuring a great deal of forced selling, that
period represented one of the greatest buying opportunities I've ever seen.

I expressed my view that, having been too optimistic before the crash, people were now taking
things too far on the downside. It's not easy to resist emotional excesses at highs and lows, but
it's by doing so that the best investment decisions can be made:

 . . . it's improbable events that brought on the credit crisis. Lots of bad things
 happened that had been considered unlikely (if not impossible), and they happened
 at the same time, to investors who'd taken on significant leverage. So the easy
 explanation is that the people who were hurt in the credit crisis hadn't been
 skeptical - or pessimistic - enough. But that [realization] triggered an epiphany:
 Skepticism and pessimism aren't synonymous. Skepticism calls for pessimism
 when optimism is excessive. But it also calls for optimism when pessimism is
 excessive. ("The Limits to Negativism," October 15, 2008)

The swing of the pendulum to one extreme or another is a constant in the investment world: from
optimism to pessimism, from credulous to skeptical, from sanguine to panicked, from wide-open
capital markets to windows slammed shut, from more buyers than sellers to more sellers than
buyers and, consequently, from overpriced to underpriced. Thus I was thrilled when an article
by my friend James Grant provided a quotation that beautifully sums up the end result of this
process:

 To the English economist Arthur C. Pigou is credited a bon mot that exactly
 frames the issue. "The error of optimism dies in the crisis, but in dying it gives
 birth to an error of pessimism. This new error is born not an infant, but a
 giant." (The Wall Street Journal, September 19, 2009, emphasis added)

Optimism thrives in bubbles. That's what they're built on, with optimism and rising prices
reinforcing each other. Likewise, crises are brought on by an extreme turn toward pessimism.
Falling prices and pessimism contribute to each other on the way down.

In the years just before the crash, no view was considered too optimistic. There were few
skeptics around to point out that a notion might be too good to be true. And then, as Pigou says,
the opposite became true post-Lehman Brothers. There was no scenario of which someone
wouldn't suggest, "But what if it's worse than that?" Now no idea was considered too negative
to be true.

The error is clear. The herd applies optimism at the top and pessimism at the bottom.
Thus, to benefit, we must be skeptical of the optimism that thrives at the top, and skeptical
of the pessimism that prevails at the bottom.

Pigou makes an excellent additional point. Bubbles usually build gradually over time, the result
of a steady accretion of logical basis, favorable developments, high returns being achieved,
platitudes taken to extremes, willing suspension of disbelief, rising optimism and the recruitment
of new buyers. But when the bubble's faulty underpinnings are exposed, it tends to collapse in a
rush. The excess of pessimism does arrive quickly, "born a giant." Or as my partner Sheldon
Stone puts it, "the air goes out of the balloon a lot faster than it went in."

A recent report by Ian Kennedy and Richard Riedel of Cambridge Associates, entitled
"Behavioral Risk," provides an excellent explanation for this process and describes its effect:

 [During good times,] we suffer from what James Montier characterizes as "the
 illusion of control: the belief that if things go wrong, we will be able to sort them
 out." When that illusion is shattered during a selling panic, we don't know where
 to turn or what to think. . . .

 What happens when we humans (and, indeed, other animals) are slammed by
 shock? Unless trained otherwise, our instincts tell us to retreat, conserve, seek the
 comparative safety of groups, and search for a path out of danger. These are
 ancient survival instincts, hard-wired. Slammed by financial shock, the same
 instincts result in heightened risk aversion (gimme cash!), a dramatic
 foreshortening of our normal investment time horizon, an overwhelming impulse
 to flee with the herd, a tendency to extrapolate current trends all the way to
 Armageddon . . .

 In times of crisis, when risk aversion spikes, panicked investors tend to stampede
 for the exits. The temptation to join them is well-nigh irresistible because the
 whole financial edifice seems to be collapsing. Carefully wrought models are
 rendered irrelevant overnight, as correlations converge on 1.0, and "fat tail" risk
 wags the dog. . . .

 When markets are falling, we instinctively feel that risk is rising, and when
 markets are rising, that risk is ebbing. In the short term, this instinct may be
 right since markets often run on momentum in the short run. But for long-
 term investors it is dead wrong. . . . As equity markets plummet, investors'
 risk aversion rises even as the fundamental risk is in fact declining. (emphasis
 added)

In other words, our instincts and emotions conspire to make us do the wrong thing at the
wrong time: to trust at the top and worry at the bottom, and to think something's riskier at
$10 than it was at $100, as if the emotion-fed price decline is correct in suggesting that
something's wrong.

Buy Low, Sell High

Of all the adages that bear on the events of this extreme cycle we're living through, the simple
one just above - probably the first one any of us learned - is still the most important.

In my early years in this business, people who spent all their time on security selection were told
that asset allocation can be more important. I'd like to nominate a third candidate for primacy:
countercyclical behavior. Consider any intermediate-term period of 3-5 years or so in which the
market pendulum makes a significant swing (and that's about all of them). The period 2004-08
presents a good example. Individual security selection had limited impact on the return from a
diversified portfolio. Asset allocation mattered much more, but primarily because it determined
your posture with regard to the market's swing. By far the most pivotal thing is whether your
investing was anti-cyclical or pro-cyclical. Did you buy more at the bottom or more at the
top? Did you invest defensively at the top and aggressively at the bottom, or vice versa? In
other words, did you buy low and sell high, or buy high and sell low?

The Cambridge study describes the importance of resisting the cycle and acting counter to it. It
also outlines the difficulty of doing so, and some of the reasons. But it is the most important
thing. Did you participate in the errors of 2004-08 or resist? That's the key.

Resisting - and thereby achieving success as a contrarian - isn't easy. Things combine to make
it difficult, including natural herd tendencies and the pain imposed by being out of step, since
momentum invariably makes pro-cyclical actions look correct for a while. (That's why it's
essential to remember that "being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being
wrong.") Given the uncertain nature of the future, and thus the difficulty of being confident your
position is the right one - especially as price moves against you - it's challenging to be a lonely
contrarian.

A few things that can help, however. First, after even a little time spent in the investment
business, everyone should know that the herd is usually wrong at the extremes and pays dearly
for its error. Second, some contrarians have records that are very impressive. And third, an
accurate reading of investor mood and behavior - perceptive inference of danger or
opportunity based on what others are doing in the market - can give investors a good leg
up toward being effective contrarians.

I say we never know where we're going, but we sure as heck ought to know where we are.
The cycle isn't unknowable or unbeatable. Touchstones like those enumerated above are there
for everyone to see, but few people take full advantage. The key is to be among those who do.

 * * *

The philosopher Hannah Arendt wrote:

 . . . no matter how much we may be capable of learning from the past, it will not
 enable us to know the future. (The Origins of Totalitarianism, 1951)

We cannot know what the future holds, and history cannot tell us. But awareness of that
limitation is a key lesson in itself. Mastering it increases our likelihood of investment
success.