Memo: Tell Me I’m Wrong.

My readers treat me well. They indulge my penchant for dissecting the past, and they send kind
messages of encouragement. To repay their generosity, I'm going to venture into something I
usually avoid: the future of the U.S. economy.

This memo won't be about the future in general, just the elements I find worrisome. As I see it,
every investor is either predominantly a worrier or predominantly a dreamer. I've come clean
many times: I'm a worrier. By saying that, I absolve myself of having to describe the whole
future. I'm going to cover the negatives, starting with the immediate and ending with the
systemic (some of the latter repeats themes from "What Worries Me," August 28, 2008). For
the other side of the story, I'd suggest you consult the optimists who seem to be in charge of the
markets these days.

The Near Term

One thing is indisputable: the rally in financial markets worldwide has outpaced the
fundamentals. At the beginning of 2009, most onlookers expected a generally weak economy
and were concerned that the behavior of consumers and banks would remain conservative.
They were 100% right, and fundamentals are still tenuous. And yet, the rally has exceeded all
expectations of which I'm aware.

Market participants have grasped at slender "green shoots": things that are declining but at a
slower rate, or that have stopped getting worse, or that have begun to improve, albeit anemically
(e.g., "At some of the nation's largest lenders, the number of consumer loans that are going bad
is starting to level off." The New York Times, January 21). Most of the good news falls into
those categories; little or nothing has blown anyone's socks off. We haven't seen much
economic news that's overwhelmingly positive, despite the fact that (a) today's comparisons are
against very weak periods a year ago, (b) our exports have been made cheaper by a dollar that's
10-20% lower, and (c) there's been an enormous amount of government stimulus. The gains
being reported are often in tenths of a percent, and the other day my drive-time radio
commentator said, "Hirings are almost equal to firings." That doesn't tell me we're in the midst
of a strong recovery, or on track for one.

In particular, most companies' sales remain quite weak. The economy is generating very little
growth at the so-called "top line" on which Gross Domestic Product is based. Rather, the profit
gains being reported have been aided in large part by cost cutting. But "cost cutting" and
"productivity gains" are nice-sounding ways of saying companies are getting by with less labor.
Thus the employer's productivity gain can be the employee's job loss. It doesn't bode well for

the general welfare, consumer spending or GDP growth if the level of business activity, as seen
in revenues, isn't rising; GDP doesn't benefit from profit margin expansion.

Reliance on Government Stimulus

A year or so ago, the government came to the rescue of the economy with massive stimulus.
With the Great Depression as a reference point, Bernanke et al. were determined to limit the
contraction in liquidity, support financial institutions and encourage economic activity. Some
say too much has been spent, the resulting deficits are worrisome, and the program's a flop,
since the economy's still languishing and unemployment remains high.

But the fact that growth is sluggish doesn't mean the stimulus has failed. The relevant question
isn't how the economy is doing, but how growth compares against what it would have been
without the stimulus. "What if" questions like that are largely unanswerable, but I'm sure we're
much better off than we would have been without the government's help.

Home sales are weak, but what would they be if the federal government wasn't directly or
indirectly backing 80-85% of all new mortgages and providing $8,000 tax credits to first-time
home buyers? What would 2009 auto sales have been without the "cash for clunkers" program?
GDP growth is insubstantial, but what would it be if government spending hadn't risen by
double digits?

Although not all the money has been well spent - "a blunt and messy solution" according to
William Dudley, president of the New York Federal Reserve (The New York Times, January 21)
- it seems clear the stimulus program has prevented a much more dire outcome. Regardless,
the economy's response is tepid, and I wonder whether the slow growth reflects negative
underlying secular trends. This makes me tend toward an expectation that the recovery will be
lackluster, and that it will take years before we get back to anything approaching the vibrancy of
the period preceding the crisis.

I fall back on the analogy of a stalled car (the economy) being pulled by a tow truck
(government stimulus). The tow truck will want to let the car down one of these days and go on
its way. Will the car be able to move on its own? We can only wait and see. I think it's more
likely to sputter along than it is to move forward energetically. But at least we don't have to
worry any longer about the analogy of fifteen months ago: an airplane whose engine has flamed
out. A powerless plane in mid-flight presents a far more troubling image than a stalled car.

The Role of Interest Rates

Interest rate reduction has played an extremely important part in the government's efforts to end
the crisis and bring the economy back to life.

 By reducing short-term interest rates (in this case to near-zero), the government makes it
 more attractive to spend and invest, stimulating the economy. This is the most direct effect.

 Lower rates also provide a direct subsidy to financial institutions, which can borrow cheaply
 and lend at higher rates. (If a bank can borrow $100 from the government at 1% and lend it
 out at 6%, it's as if the government wrote the bank a check for $5 - but more subtle and
 perhaps less vexing to Main Street, and with potentially positive multiplier effects.) Given
 the state of financial institutions in 2008, it's clear this element was essential.

 There's a third, less direct effect. Rock-bottom rates on Treasurys push people to chase high
 returns by undertaking riskier investments. A year ago, the pensioner living on interest
 opened his year-end mutual fund statement and saw that the return on his T-bill or money
 market fund was close to zero. He grabbed the phone and called the company to say, "Get
 me out of that fund and into the one that's paying 15%" . . . and so became a high yield
 bond investor.

It's clear from the behavior of the markets that something has been goosing investment
performance, since the best gains have been seen in the fundamentally riskiest assets. Part of it
is general easing of the excessive risk aversion and fear of a year ago, and part is a justified
rebound from too-low prices. But certainly near-zero interest rates have played a major part.

As with most remedies - economic and otherwise - ultra-low interest rates raise questions:

 Will economic recovery continue if rates go to market levels?
 Will financial institutions remain viable without the subsidy of low rates?
 Can the residential real estate market recover without support from cheap mortgages?

But what if rates remain low?

 Will foreigners continue to lend the U.S. the money it needs to cover its deficits?
 Can the dollar hold its value against other currencies if international demand weakens for
 dollars with which to invest in the low-yielding U.S.?
 Most market participants tend to extrapolate currency movements (rather than project their
 reversal). So if low rates cause the dollar to weaken, will non-U.S. investors shy further
 from our currency to avoid continued weakness, exacerbating these issues?

Global considerations call for higher rates, but fighting domestic economic weakness relies
on low rates. Resolving this dilemma won't be easy . . . or painless.

The Importance of Consumer Spending

At two-thirds of GDP, consumer spending was the linchpin of U.S. economic growth in the
decade-plus leading up to the credit crisis. And the foundation for the rapid growth in that
spending was the availability of consumer credit and the willingness to use it.

The innovation and explosion of consumer credit, which I view as having begun in the 1970s,
enabled Americans to spend money they didn't have to buy things they couldn't afford. This
was compounded in the current decade by vastly lowered credit standards for first mortgages
and by radical expansion of what used to be called second mortgages but were re-labeled "home

equity loans." The final element in the equation was the decline in the savings rate to roughly
zero in the last decade. Thus consumers spent all they made and, in many cases, more.

These trends enabled growth in spending to exceed the growth in incomes, adding substantially
to the growth in GDP. Few people seemed to understand that increases in home prices weren't
inexorable, or that there was anything wrong with incurring debts without a foreseeable way to
repay them. Shopping became a national pursuit, and fads like "investment dressing" and
"investing in collectibles" made reckless spending seem rational.

This all fell apart when the uptrend in home prices collapsed and consumer credit and home
loans became unavailable. Fear suddenly replaced limitless optimism among consumers,
shopping became dispensable, and the savings rate rebounded to around 5% - meaning
spending suddenly grew slower than incomes (which themselves were contracting). The trend
in consumer spending, which had buoyed the economy, now led its decline. Further, businesses
saw no reason to expand inventories or factory capacity, transferring the slowdown to the
manufacturing sector.

What will happen in the future? Will spending rebound? Or will the swing toward frugality
and savings be permanent? I recently read an article which dismissed the latter possibility,
saying, "People still want a better life." I don't doubt that, but what if that "better life"
comes to be defined as having more savings and less debt, rather than a new car or
another handbag?

According to The Wall Street Journal of December 17:

 . . . businesses ranging from shoemakers to financial services to luxury hotels
 don't expect American consumers to return to their spendthrift ways anytime
 soon. They see consumers emerging from the punishing downturn with a new
 mindset: careful, practical, more socially conscious and embarrassed by flashy
 shows of wealth.

Prudence dictates that people should have savings. But I hasten to point out that "should" isn't
the same as "will." There's a maxim that "No one ever went broke underestimating the
intelligence of the American consumer." I'd prefer to see consumers save rather than return to
over-spending - it's healthier for families and for the economy in the long run, providing
reserves in case of emergency and capital for investment. But I won't be shocked if they don't.

The Outlook for Real Estate

Just as happened in homes, commercial real estate saw an explosion of excesses in the years
leading up to the crisis. Investors and funds - perhaps pursuing the myth that real estate is a
good inflation hedge regardless of the price paid - were aggressive buyers.

Capitalization rates or "cap rates" (the demanded ratio of net operating income to price) fell to
4% and sometimes less, implying price/earnings ratios of 25 or more. Property buyers applied
those ratios to peak operating income and financed their purchases with copious amounts of
debt.

Right now, most borrowers are avoiding default, sometimes abetted by lenders practicing
"pretend and extend." What they're pretending is that commercial real estate loans will be
repayable upon maturity.

It seems inescapable that over the next few years:

 higher vacancy rates and lower rents will keep net operating income from returning to the
 peak levels of the last cycle,
 property buyers won't go back to finding sufficient risk compensation in pre-crisis cap rates,
 and
 financial institutions aren't going to lend the same high percentage of property purchase
 prices as they did 3-4 years ago.

Any one of these factors would make it hard for commercial real estate to again command its
pre-crisis prices, or for it to be financeable or refinanceable at those levels. Together, the three
elements mean many properties are "upside-down" today. That is, their market value is less
than the debt against them.

Will a $100 million loan secured by an $80 million building be repaid or refinanced? Unlikely.
And since that description covers a great deal of commercial real estate today, many real estate
loans will go unpaid at maturity. That implies widespread losses for investors and write-downs
for lenders.

Many small and medium-sized banks have too much local real estate and construction loans in
their portfolios. They fell for the myth of safety in real estate and forgot about the need for
geographic diversification. Thus, in addition to real estate bankruptcies, the next few years may
see numerous small bank failures.

State and Local Governments

I'm surprised how little we read today about municipal finances. In addition to regularly
spending more than they took in (thanks to the miracle of borrowing), many state and local
governments got into the habit of ratcheting up budgets in good times, establishing or expanding
irreversible spending programs. Thus, today's substantial declines in sales, income and
property tax revenues can't be met with corresponding cuts in spending.

So now we have massive deficits in places like New York and California - the result of strong
spending at a time of soft income. The situation in the latter, my home state, is further
complicated by (a) the ability of voters to enact new spending programs through referendums
without having to worry about where the money will come from, (b) the fact that the most
famous referendum of them all - Proposition 13 - essentially prevents homes from being
reassessed to reflect appreciation and (c) the requirement that the annual budget be approved by
two-thirds of the legislators in each house, virtually ruling out any unpleasant medicine. It's for
that reason that California resorted to paying its bills in scrip (a practice since discontinued) and
furloughing state employees.

Will states and cities go bankrupt in coming years? What will be the effect on their
bondholders, and on the municipal bond market as a whole? How will bankruptcy be
reconciled with municipal bond issuers' promises to dedicate their full faith and credit to paying
interest and principal (and thus, implicitly, to raise taxes without limitation)? How will the
federal government respond? If it opens its coffers to bail out profligate states, what will that
say to states that were prudent enough to stay out of trouble? No answers here, but lots of
trouble in sight.

Our Dance with China

Here are the facts:

 China has vast resources, human and otherwise.
 It produces goods cheaper than the developed countries.
 China's likely undervalued currency aids its competitiveness as an exporter.
 The U.S. buys more from China than it sells to China.
 That means dollars keep piling up in China.
 The U.S. has to borrow back those dollars to fund its fiscal and trade deficits.
 We'd prefer low interest rates in order to minimize our interest payments, and a weak dollar
 so we can repay our debts (as if!) in devalued currency.
 China, with its reserves growing, has to invest large amounts of dollars.
 China wants high rates and a strong dollar in order to maximize the value of our future
 payments to them.
 China would probably like to diversify the investment of its reserves away from the dollar,
 but (a) it's hard to figure out where to better invest them and (b) doing so would further
 weaken the dollar, of which China already owns so many.

The great thing about not being an economist is that I don't have a view on how all of this will
play out. But I'm sure it implies considerable uncertainty.

Wherefore Jobs?

I wonder what will occupy the millions of Americans dependent until now on "physical" jobs.
In the late nineteenth century, agriculture became mechanized and many people left the South to
find manufacturing jobs in the Midwest. Then manufacturing was automated over time, and the
economy went global, reducing the need for American factory workers. Today, relatively little
manufacturing takes place in the high-cost U.S. Increasing percentages of our jobs are now in
services, government, healthcare, retailing, intellectual property and information.

In "What Worries Me," I expressed concern about an American economy that manufactures less
and less, as well as puzzlement regarding the consequences. Where will jobs come from as the
population grows and manufacturing continues to shrink?

 In addition to replacing 7.2 million lost jobs [since the recession began in
 December 2007], the economy needs an additional 100,000 a month to keep up
 with population growth. If the job market returns to the rapid pace of the 1990s
 - adding 1.25 million private-sector jobs a year, double the 2001-2007 pace - the
 U.S. wouldn't get back to a 5% unemployment rate until late 2017, Rutgers
 University economist Joseph Seneca estimated. (The Wall Street Journal,

 "We'll give each person a diploma and a laptop" seems to resonate from the last presidential
campaign, but I don't see that as much of an answer to the problem since (a) not every strong
back can be redirected to a desk job, especially given that our system of public education is in
crisis, and (b) one of the advantages of an information economy is supposed to be that it needs
fewer workers to get business done.

In short, I worry that the growth in jobs in the recovery will be slow, and that
unemployment and underemployment will remain stubbornly at higher levels than in the
past. That doesn't bode well for either the short-term cyclical recovery or the long-term
outlook.

Global Competitiveness

Now that the world is one big market and consumers have their choice of goods from anywhere
in it, success in producing and selling is largely a function of cost competitiveness. For years,
things like the superiority of American products blunted foreign competition. One of the results
was that the American worker enjoyed the highest wages and standard of living in the world.
But now China, Korea and other nations have eclipsed much of our manufacturing advantage,
allowing them to produce goods that are not just cheaper but at times better.

It stands to reason that today, goods produced with high-priced inputs will not compete
successfully. In order for U.S. goods to be competitive, our costs will have to come down, and
with them our relative standard of living. Why should any country's workers be able to
command a higher standard of living if the goods they produce aren't demonstrably superior?

These trends have already taken effect in "legacy industries" like airlines and autos. For
example, one of the main goals of the auto bankruptcies was to limit retirees' lifetime benefits.
I think we'll continue to see declining relative costs in the U.S., to the betterment of our
competitiveness but the detriment of our workers.

Inflation, Exchange Rates and Interest Rates

The macro question I get most often concerns the outlook for inflation. And as someone who
lived through stagflation in the 1970s and paid interest at 22-3⁄4%, I think it's very much worth
considering.

The hyperinflation of the '70s was sparked by the Oil Embargo of 1973. Labor contracts and
benefit plans containing cost-of-living adjustments built on that to create a cost-plus cycle in

which inflation lifted wages, contributing further to inflation, and so forth. Rising prices
frightened people into demand-pull inflation by convincing them to stock up on goods to avoid
higher prices later. And people borrowed to invest in assets like land out of a belief that no
matter what interest rate they paid to finance their purchase, the asset's price would increase at a
faster rate (the epitome of inflationary thinking).

No one knew how to solve the problem. I used to go to hear "Dr. Gloom" and "Dr. Doom"
(economists Al Wojnilower of First Boston and Henry Kaufman of Salomon Brothers) compete
to be more depressing. They talked about how hard it would be to get inflation down to "an
acceptable level." One day, I heard someone ask for the definition of "an acceptable level." He
was told "one-third less than whatever it is at the time."

Finally, however, in the early 1980s Paul Volcker and the Fed implemented the painful solution
of significantly higher interest rates, inflation subsided, and the stock market took off. Over the
next 25 years, rising inflation and interest rates were forgotten as possible sources of risk.

Today, labor in the U.S. lacks the power to demand strong wage increases or COLAs. Further,
the sluggish macro picture argues against demand-pull. Strong inflation is usually associated
with higher levels of prosperity and stronger demand for goods than I foresee. Finally, inflation
often presupposes pricing power on the part of manufacturers, which I also don't see.

Those are the factors that argue against an increase in inflation. However, because of other
forces - primarily financial and international - it could take increasing numbers of dollars to
buy a given quantity of the imported goods on which we've become so dependent (a.k.a.
inflation).

 As I mentioned earlier, debtors want there to be inflation so they can repay their debts with
 currency that's worth less. To accomplish this, debtor nations have the ability to debase
 their currencies by printing more of it. For the clearest example, see "The Limits to
 Negativism" (October 15, 2008) on the subject of the Weimar Republic. Post-World War I
 Germany was assessed war reparations it couldn't afford, so it simply over-stamped its
 1,000 mark notes "1 million marks." All of a sudden it had created enough marks to pay its
 debt to the world . . . and destroyed the purchasing power of its currency.
 A dollar weakened by reduced demand for it (e.g., as a vehicle for the investment of China's
 reserves) would, likewise, equate to more dollars per item bought from abroad.
 Finally, "stores of value" like gold hold value only because people agree they will. The
 same goes for currencies. Profligate spending, runaway deficits and declining world
 position could reduce the role of the dollar as a reserve currency, again cutting into its
 purchasing power.

I'm certainly in no position to predict a decline in the purchasing power of the dollar (that is, a
bout of strong inflation). However, I do think it's very much worth worrying about.

When Paul Volcker left the Fed in 1987, he was asked at his first public appearance, "Will
interest rates go up or down?" He answered presciently: "Yes." Of course, his answer is still
the right one. But from today's levels, I think rates are more likely to go up than down
(there's so little room for the latter).

Reduced faith in the dollar means it would take higher interest rates to attract non-U.S. buyers
to dollar investments. And, even domestically, (a) one of these days the government will stop
holding rates down and (b) higher inflation would require rates to rise to compensate for the fact
that the dollars with which debts are repaid will buy less. For all these reasons, I think investors
must consider the prospect of higher inflation, dollar weakness and higher interest rates.

What to do about them? The list of possibilities is long:

 Buy TIPS.
 Buy floating rate debt.
 Buy gold (but only at the "right" price, and what's that?)
 Buy real assets, such as commodities, oil and real estate (ditto).
 Buy foreign currencies.
 Make investments denominated in foreign currencies.
 Buy the securities of companies that will be able to pass on increased costs.
 Buy the securities of companies that own commodities, or that own assets denominated in
 foreign currencies.
 Buy the securities of companies that earn their profits outside the U.S.
 Hold cash (to invest once interest rates have risen).
 Sell long-term bonds (and possibly go short).

These are the actions that can profit from - or that provide the flexibility to adjust to -
increased inflation, a decline in the dollar and increased interest rates, all of which are
interconnected. The most important one is the last one: long-term bonds could suffer worst in
an inflationary, higher-rate environment, especially given today's low starting yields.

One final point: When I provide this answer to the frequent question about inflation, I ask
people whether they agree. Usually they do. Then I ask how much of their portfolio they're
willing to devote to protecting against these macro forces. If their answer is 5%, 10% or 15%, I
point out that that's pretty close to doing nothing. The question is whether you're willing to
devote at least 30-40%. Few people are.

But that's the thing: It's easy to say, "I'm worried about inflation." It's something very
different to say, "I'm worried enough about inflation to do something meaningful about it." Let
me know when you decide how much you're willing to devote.

The Environment for Business

Moving all the way out on the timescale, I'd like to say a few words about some of my biggest-
picture concerns.

I worry about long-term problems that are being left untreated, such as our massive deficits
and our under-funded Social Security, Medicare and education systems.

I worry about the long-term impact of government involvement in business decisions:
telling companies what they should pay top employees and setting minimums for the percentage
of premium revenue that a health insurer should pay out in benefits, for example. The Obama
administration has the smallest percentage of Cabinet secretaries with backgrounds in the
private sector of any president since Teddy Roosevelt, according to the November 24 issue of
Forbes. People in the executive and legislative branches with no experience in business are
telling business how to operate.

Lastly, I worry about the rising tide of populism and anti-business sentiment. I've never
seen negative attitudes like those toward financial institutions today. Administration members
with Wall Street backgrounds are regarded with suspicion; high incomes are considered
wrongful; and banks and investment banks are seen as victimizing America, not rendering it
prosperous. Schadenfreude is in the ascendancy, with people wishing ill for successful bankers.
Politicians pander by throwing gasoline on the fire. With an election coming up, I expect
candidates to compete to see who can be tougher on Wall Street.

I mentioned in "What Worries Me" that decades ago, when a socialist-leaning labor movement
was ascendant in the U.K., I came across a good explanation for the success of U.S. business:

 When the worker in England sees the boss drive out of the factory in his Rolls
 Royce, he says, "I'd like to put a bomb under that car." When the American
 worker sees the boss drive out in his Cadillac, he says "I'd like to own a car like
 that someday."

More recently, in 2005, Thomas Friedman compared old and new economies as follows:

 French voters are trying to preserve a 35-hour work week in a world where
 Indian engineers are ready to work a 35-hour day. Good luck. . . .

 Voters in "old Europe" - France, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy - seem to
 be saying to their leaders: stop the world, we want to get off; while voters in
 India have been telling their leaders: stop the world and build us a stepstool, we
 want to get on. . . .

 A few weeks ago Franz Müntefering, [then] chairman of Germany's Social
 Democratic Party, compared private equity firms - which buy up failing
 businesses, downsize them and then sell them - to a "swarm of locusts."

 The fact that a top German politician has resorted to attacking capitalism to
 win votes tells you just how explosive the next decade in Western Europe
 could be, as some of these aging, inflexible economies - which have grown used
 to six-week vacations and unemployment insurance that is almost as good as
 having a job - become more intimately integrated with Eastern Europe, India and
 China in a flattening world. ("A Race to the Top," The New York Times, June 3,
 2005 - emphasis added)

Capitalism, free enterprise, pro-business policies, adaptability, work ethic and profit -
these are the concepts that have generated most of the material progress in this world.

They were behind much of America's relative gains in the twentieth century, just as they now
hold great promise for China, India and Brazil. Compare the growth records and prospects of
countries that exhibit them against countries that don't. Which kind of country will the U.S.
of the future be?

Today people seem to think of companies like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase as enemies,
not friends - companies to be rooted against, not for (and there are non-financial examples as
well). I'd like those people to tell me what engine of progress will propel America ahead in the
twenty-first century. It's not going to be the barbershops and fast-food outlets. It has to be big,
world-leading businesses, working on behalf of their investor-owners.

We're a big country, and we'd better pull for big business - not against it. We'd better
remember that "what's good for business is good for America." If we don't, and if big business
isn't allowed to thrive, wondering about the shape of the coming recovery or the outlook for
security prices in 2010 will amount to nothing more than "rearranging the deck chairs on the
Titanic."

Investment performance in a single year should matter principally to people who're going
to liquidate their portfolios at the end of that year. Most of us expect our holding periods
to go on well beyond 2010. So we'd better hope for a salutary long-term environment in
which to hold.

 * * *

I'm not writing to be negative or to depress readers. And as I said earlier, I don't claim to be
presenting the whole picture. Nevertheless, I hope I'm providing a service.

The question isn't whether there'll be a recovery, but what type. In fact, a recovery is
doubtless underway as I write. But for the reasons enumerated above, I think it'll turn out to be
anemic and possibly marked by fits and starts, not a powerful "V."

 The recovery will face headwinds in the form of declining manufacturing and weak job
 creation.
 Slow job growth, sluggish incomes, spending that grows slower than incomes, and scarcer
 consumer credit likely will combine to limit the consumer's ability to energize the economy.
 Removing the props of elevated government spending, debt guarantees and artificially low
 interest rates will limit its vibrancy.
 We'll continue to face challenges in terms of real estate losses, bank write-downs and fiscal
 and trade deficits.

On the other hand, near-term economic statistics will benefit from the following:

 easy comparisons against depressed prior levels,
 the rebuilding of inventories and refilling of pipelines to meet recovering demand, and

 big companies' large cash holdings, delevered balance sheets and eagerness to respond to
 increased orders.

When people ask me when we'll get back to normal, I ask what they mean by normal. If they
mean an environment like 1992-2007, I tell them those were unusually good times, not what the
"normal" of the future is going to look like.

The fifteen (or 25) years just prior to the credit crisis were marked by strong, consumer-led
growth; rapidly increasing use of credit; American leadership in media, software, technology
and financial products; and powerful bullishness and expansiveness. I doubt the years just
ahead will be equally positive.

My goal in this memo isn't to express a forecast. I know no forecast - and certainly not mine -
is likely to be correct. What I do want to do is caution that the considerable risks I see may be
less than fully appreciated by those setting asset prices today. The greatest market risks lie in
failure of the macro economy to live up to the expectations embodied in today's prices. Please
tell me if you think I'm wrong in letting the factors described above push me toward
caution. In fact, I'd love it if you told me my worries are unfounded, and that our
economic and business future will see a complete return to good times.

Most people view the future as likely to repeat past patterns, which it may or may not do. They
tend to think of the future in terms of a single scenario, whereas it really consists of a wide
range of possibilities. (Remember Elroy Dimson's trenchant observation that "risk means more
things can happen than will happen.") And to the extent they do consider a variety of
possibilities, few people include ones that haven't been part of recent experience.

The uncertainties discussed above tell me today's distribution of possibilities has a
substantial left-hand (i.e., negative) tail, probably greater than at most times in the past.
The proper response should be to discount asset prices, allowing a substantial margin for
error. Forecasts should be conservative, yield spreads should incorporate ample risk
premiums, valuation parameters should be below the long-term norms, and investor
behavior should be prudent.

And yet, the powerful rally of 2009 has more than offset the decline of 2008 in many asset
classes. To the extent that the resultant valuations incorporate optimism, I would argue for
caution today. A lot of "easy money" was made last year; in retrospect, all you had to do was
have access to capital and the guts required to invest it at the absurd low prices of late
2008/early 2009 and hold on during the wild recovery. Of course, those things were far from
easy at the time.

The profits ahead won't be easy money. They'll require careful selection, appropriately
high risk consciousness, insistence on margin for error, and cooperation from the forces
that determine outcomes (such as luck). With most assets valued about fairly today,
caution, discernment and discipline - not much needed in 2009 - have replaced guts as the
essential elements in profitable investing.


Memo: I’d Rather Be Wrong.

Just a few weeks ago, I published "Tell Me I'm Wrong," my latest list of things in the
investment environment that I find worth worrying about. I'm going to devote a few pages here
- I promise this'll be the shortest memo in years - to a point I touched on in "What Worries
Me" (August 28, 2008) but omitted from the more recent piece.

This memo will be about one of the inarguably most depressing topics of our time: the
seeming inability of governments and politicians to solve - or even tackle - the financial
problems we face. Here's the situation in Washington:

• Many of our most sweeping financial problems, such as deficits, national debt, healthcare
 costs, Social Security and Medicare, are long-term problems.
• It's important that we tackle them early, since limiting their further growth can reduce the
 eventual cost and difficulty of fixing them.
• But the process of solving them will be unpleasant in the short term, entailing bad-tasting
 medicine, while the benefits will only be seen in the long term, when today's politicians will
 have left the stage.
• Finally, most politicians' main concern seems to be getting themselves and other members
 of their party elected. Voting for short-term pain in order to solve long-term problems is
 generally viewed as the wrong way to go about that.

This memo is inspired by two excellent newspaper articles that appeared within the last month:
"Party Gridlock Feeds New Fear of a Debt Crisis," by Jackie Calmes (The New York Times,
February 17)* and "Perils of the California Model" by David Wessel (The Wall Street Journal,
March 4).† Indicating their importance, The Times piece ran in the upper right-hand corner of
the front page, always the place for the top story of the day, and the Journal story was carried
on page A2. I've included links below in the hope they'll increase your likelihood of reading
them. As Calmes wrote in The Times (in both cases below, emphasis added):

 After decades of warnings that budget profligacy, escalating health care costs
 and an aging population would lead to a day of fiscal reckoning, economists and
 the nation's foreign creditors say that moment is approaching faster than
 expected, hastened by a deep recession that cost trillions of dollars in foregone
 tax revenues and higher spending for safety-net programs.

 Yet rarely has the political system seemed more polarized and less able to
 solve big problems that involve trust, tough choices and little or no short-

*

†

 term gain. The main urgency for both parties seems to be about pinning blame
 on the other, before November's elections, for budget deficits now averaging $1
 trillion a year, the largest since World War II relative to the size of the economy.

Two weeks later, Wessel put it this way in The Journal:

 The stalemate over health-care legislation, despite widespread acknowledgment
 that the status quo is unsustainable, underscores the inability of the political
 system to cope with complex, long-term fiscal issues. . . .

 Today, the deficits projected are bigger than ever, baby boomers are beginning to
 retire, health-care costs keep rising and, surely, we're closer to the day when
 Asian governments grow reluctant to lend ever-greater sums to the U.S. Treasury
 at low interest rates.

 The Congressional Budget Office projects current policies would take the deficit
 from today's 10% of gross domestic product to over 20% by 2020 and over 40%
 by 2080. Yet today's politics appear more toxic, and the ranks of
 congressional leaders with the skill and desire to fashion compromises
 instead of talking points are depleted.

Here we have remarkably similar themes voiced in what some would call "a Democrat
newspaper" and in a stalwart of the pro-business Republican establishment. Both articles
complain that the current trends in politics reduce the likelihood that major problems will be
tackled and solved . . . a rare example of agreement across the aisle.

That brings me to the subject of one of today's greatest stumbling blocks, the absence of
that elusive ideal: bipartisanship. Let's discuss this issue in principle. It's likely that the
"ins" always think the fact that voters gave them control means they should mostly get their
way, and that "bipartisanship" consists of the "outs" going along with them. The outs, on the
other hand, don't take the election results to mean the minority has no rights, and they feel
perfectly within their rights to use Congress's rules and processes to fight for their point of view
(which, on us-versus-them issues, equates to thwarting the efforts of the ins).

The Times article points out ironically that when control of government is divided between the
two parties, they both feel some responsibility for solving problems, while today, with full
control seemingly in the hands of the Democrats, the Republicans are free to view their only
role as dissenting and obstructing. And as the party in control, the Democrats evidently feel no
obligation to yield on their positions.

Frankly, I wouldn't be so unhappy if I were sure today's battles were being fought over
principles. What worries me most is the appearance that, instead, they're being fought for
personal and political advantage and to win elections.

Today I think few legislators from either party will vote for anything that would let members of
the other party claim to have accomplished something. That may be an exaggeration, but I
think it's more true than false. And I think that's behind the recent decisions by a number of
senior legislators not to run for re-election. I've had the privilege of getting to know Byron

Dorgan, the senator from North Dakota, and I have no trouble believing that was behind his
decision. We've spoken about his frustration with the contentious environment in Washington.
More recently, Evan Bayh of Indiana also said he wouldn't seek another term in the Senate
because it's impossible to get anything done in dysfunctional Washington. Here's how he put it
in a February 21 Op-Ed piece in The Times:

 There are many causes for the dysfunction: strident partisanship, unyielding
 ideology, a corrosive system of campaign financing, gerrymandering of House
 districts, endless filibusters, holds on executive appointees in the Senate,
 dwindling social interaction between senators of opposing parties and a caucus
 system that promotes party unity at the expense of bipartisan consensus.

Today's positions seem unusually unyielding. The Republicans' conservative base
demands adherence to the no-tax pledge, while liberal Democrats demand that their
representatives prevent cuts in spending for domestic programs. These hardened (and
polar) positions greatly narrow the possible grounds for problem-solving.

When the seller says "I won't accept any price below $20" and the buyer says "I'll never pay
more than $18," no deal can be struck, whereas in more flexible times they might meet at $19.
Maybe one party or the other (or both) is right and should stand on principle. But when we
need them to find common ground on which to solve critical problems, refusal to reach
agreement isn't to our advantage.

• Everyone wants to see the deficit narrowed, but today's circumstances seem to prohibit both
 expenditure reduction and revenue increases. Everything else is on the table (as the kids
 say, lol).

• We know Social Security has to be fixed in order to prevent its inevitable insolvency, since
 there are fewer and fewer working people paying into the system per retiree. However,
 some people find it unacceptable to raise tax rates or the limit on taxed income, and others
 resist reducing or delaying benefits. Thus no one in Washington seems to prefer tackling
 the problem over sweeping it under the rug (Congress's version of "extend and pretend").

• On the state and local level, there's massive underfunding of pensions, but few officials
 consider it possible to either reduce benefits or increase employee/employer contributions.
 Thus only two possibilities remain: ignore the problem or hide it by increasing the assumed
 return on assets (from today's already-challenging levels of 8% or more).

In the old days, the Lyndon Johnsons in Congress would sit down for a drink with the other
side, swap a "yes" vote on this for something else, and get things done. For any of a million
reasons, this seems impossible today. Calmes quotes G. William Hoagland, a former fiscal
policy adviser to Senate Republicans, as follows:

 I used to think it would take a global fiscal crisis to get both parties to the table,
 but we just had one. These days I wonder if this country is even governable.

I hasten to state that I don't view this as a question of one side being right and the other wrong.
At this moment, with the Democrats in control of the White House and both houses of
Congress, the Republican minority seems to be hell-bent on frustrating the Democrats' plans
(and capable of doing so). But my criticism isn't reserved for today's minority party. I have
absolutely no doubt that unless something changes, the next time the Republicans are in power,
the roles will be reversed and the Democrats will be the obstructionists.

You can think the things President Obama wants to do are either right or wrong, but you
can't deny the fact that, even with majorities in both houses of Congress, he can't do them.
This truly is gridlock.

Some people think gridlock is a good thing. They think either (a) government should do less
rather than more or (b) government is incapable of doing anything right (or both). In my
opinion, you have to hold attitudes like those in order to be optimistic about the situation in
Washington. However, there are some things only government can do. Even the founding
fathers, as leery of government as some were, created one. Many of today's problems are
government-created, so government will have to solve them.

I believe most Americans want to see the problems solved. Of course, they disagree on how
best to do so. But our leaders should work together to find solutions and explain to the voters
why compromise is necessary. That's an important part of leadership . . . perhaps more
important than simply resisting the other party's suggestions.

The people in Washington may be of good will; certainly most of those I've met seem to be.
They probably believe the positions they hold are the right ones. But they have to let go of their
obsessions with re-election, personal preferences and politics as a contact sport. We need them
to take up and solve the important problems, and I see no movement in that direction.

In fact, I see additions to the arsenal of delay and frustration. When I was a boy, filibusters -
weeks-long orations - were employed on rare occasions to hamper legislative action. Now
filibusters can be virtual, meaning no talking is required; you just say, "I filibuster." It takes 60
votes in the Senate to bring something to the floor over an objection. Thus, with filibusters
more frequent, 60 votes have replaced 51 as the threshold for forward motion. (Since I'm from
California, where it takes two-thirds of the legislature to approve a budget, I can assure you that
supermajorities don't result in better decisions, just inaction.)

When I see tactics like this in use - and this brand of partisan warfare, where it's all about
winning and losing - I tend to agree with Will Rogers: "The more you observe politics, the
more you've got to admit that each party is worse than the other."

I don't think any elected official who puts re-election above all else can do the right thing
when it comes to hard choices. If the decisions were easy and the remedies palatable to the
electorate, they would have been implemented by now. Instead, the answers to today's
problems will be painful and displease some voters (if not all). Here's how Wessel puts it:

 Imagine this plausible scenario: Public confidence in government continues to
 decline. Unemployment remains high. Americans demand more government
 services, more benefits and lower taxes.

 Politicians, seeking re-election, go along. Exhibit A: John McCain, the Arizona
 Republican who called for cutting Medicare as a presidential candidate last year
 and now, fighting for reelection to the Senate, proposes to erect new
 parliamentary obstacles to Medicare cuts.

 In this scenario, even deficit-fearing politicians avoid taking on the long-term
 deficit. [Syracuse University's Leonard Burman] imagines a White House
 political adviser saying: "Mr. President, if you raise taxes or cut popular
 programs, you or your party will be defeated in the polls and the bad guys will
 take over. The bad guys do not share your priorities and they do not care about
 the deficit. Therefore, you cannot effectively deal with the deficit."

Unusually for me, I have a remedy in mind. Let's tell our elected officials we want solutions,
not warfare; compromise, not intransigence. And let's try to elect moderates in both
parties, not extremists. I don't know if it'll work, but I don't see many alternatives.

I'll move toward my conclusion with a quote (per The Times) from former Republican Senate
leader Alan Simpson, who has been selected to co-chair the commission on the deficit:

 There isn't a single sitting member of Congress - not one - that doesn't know
 exactly where we're headed. And to use the politics of fear and division and hate
 on each other - we are at a point right now where it doesn't make a damn
 whether you're a Democrat or a Republican if you've forgotten you're an
 American. (emphasis added)

And where is it that every single member knows we're headed? At a reception I was fortunate
to attend earlier this month, Hank Paulson described the situation roughly as follows (I
paraphrase):

 At the family level, we try very hard to leave the next generation better off than
 we are. But at the national level, we're living in the present and ignoring
 massive problems with which the next generation will be saddled.

Wessel ends with a quote from President Ronald Reagan, and I'll go along with him. In 1982,
Reagan had to sell a package of spending cuts and tax increases. In other words, there was
something for everyone to dislike. But Reagan didn't shrink from such things. Here's what he
said:

 Do we tell . . . Americans to give up hope, that their ship of state lies dead in the
 water because those entrusted with manning that ship can't agree on which sail to
 raise? We're within sight of the safe port of economic recovery. Do we make
 port or go aground on the shoals of selfishness, partisanship, and just plain
 bullheadedness?


Memo: Warning Flags.

For about a year, I've been sharing my realization that there are two main risks in the
 investment world: the risk of losing money and the risk of missing opportunity. You can
 completely avoid one or the other, or you can compromise between the two, but you can't
 eliminate both. One of the prominent features of investor psychology is that few people
 are able to (a) always balance the two risks or (b) emphasize the right one at the right
 time. Rather, at the extremes they usually obsess about the wrong one . . . and in so
 doing make the other the one deserving attention.

 During bull markets, when asset prices are elevated, there's great risk of losing money.
 And in bear markets, when everything's at rock bottom, the real risk consists of missing
 opportunity. Everyone knows these things. But bull markets develop for the simple
 reason that most people are buying - ignoring the risk of loss in order to keep from
 missing opportunity - just when elevated prices imply losses later. Likewise, markets
 reach their lows because most people are selling, trying to avoid further losses and
 ignoring the bargains that are everywhere.

 The Never-Ending Cycle

 Why do people buy when they should sell, and sell when they should buy? The answer's
 simple: emotion takes over. Price increases excite investors and encourage them to buy,
 and price declines scare them into selling.

 When the economy and markets boom, people tend to assume more of the same is in the
 offing. They find little to worry about, other than the possibility that others will make
 more money than they will. Fear of loss recedes, and fear of opportunity costs takes
 over. Thus risk aversion evaporates and risk tolerance rises.

 Risk aversion is absolutely essential in order for markets to function properly.
 When sufficient risk aversion is present, people shrink from riskier investments and
 prefer safer ones. Thus riskier investments have to appear to offer higher returns in order
 to attract capital. That's as it should be.

 But when people get excited about the prospect of easy money - even if from assets or
 investment strategies that have become far too popular, turning into overpriced manias -
 they frequently drop their risk aversion and adopt risk tolerance instead. Thus they
 swarm into the investment du jour without concern for its elevated price and risk. This
 behavior should constitute an important warning flag for prudent investors.

 In the same way that expanded risk tolerance accompanies appreciated asset prices
 and contributes to the risk of loss, so does risk aversion tend to rise in times of
 depressed prices, increasing the risk of missed opportunity. When people refuse to
 buy assets regardless of their low prices, they miss out on the best, lowest-risk returns of
 the cycle.

 Recent History - on the Upside

 Just as the recent market cycle was extreme, so was the swing in attitudes regarding the
 "twin risks." And thus so are the resultant learning opportunities.

 Risk aversion was clearly inadequate in the years just before the onset of the crisis
 in mid-2007. In fact, I consider this the main cause of the crisis. (Last year,
 DealBook, the online business publication of The New York Times, asked me to write
 about what I thought had been behind the crisis. My article, entitled "Too Much Trust,
 Too Little Worry," was published on October 5, 2009. It offers more on this subject
 should you want it.) Here's the background regarding the early part of this decade:

 Interest rates kept low by the Fed combined with the first three-year decline of stocks
 since the Depressionto reduce interest in traditional investments. As a result, investors
 shifted their focus to alternative and innovative investments such as buyouts,
 infrastructure, real estate, hedge funds and structured mortgage vehicles. In the low-
 return climate of the time, much of the appeal of these asset classes came from the fact
 that they promised higher returns thanks to their use of leverage, whether through
 borrowing, tranching or derivatives.

 Given the high promised returns, investors forgot about (or chose to ignore) the ability of
 leverage to magnify losses as well as gains. Contributing to investors' rosy view of
 leverage's likely impact was their belief that risk had been banished by (a) the efficacy of
 the Fed and its "Greenspan put," (b) the combination of securitization, disintermediation,
 tranching, decoupling and financial engineering, and (c) the "wall of liquidity" coming
 toward us from China and the oil producing nations.

 For these reasons, few market participants were afraid of losing money. Most just
 worried about missing opportunity. The unattractive outlook for stocks and bonds
 meant investors would have to be aggressive and innovative if they were going to earn
 significant returns in the low-return environment. Thus risk aversion (a) was unnecessary
 and (b) would be counter-productive. "You'd better invest in this new financial product,"
 people were told. "If you don't, you'll miss out. And if you don't and your competitor
 does - and it works - you'll look out-of-step and fall behind." When contemplating a
 virtuous circle without end, investors usually think of only one word: "buy."

 This describes the process through which fear of missed opportunity can overcome
 skepticism and prudence. And in this period, that's what happened. No one worried

 about losing money. Fear of missed opportunity drove most investors, and Citibank's
 Chuck Prince famously said, ". . . as long as the music is playing, you've got to get up
 and dance. We're still dancing." Although he worried about a possible decline in
 liquidity, he worried more about falling behind in the manic race to provide capital.

 Recent History - on the Downside

 The events from mid-2007 through late 2008 or early 2009 demonstrate the reverse in
 operation. The upward trend in home prices ground to a halt and subprime mortgages
 began to default in large numbers. Leveraged vehicles melted down. Credit became
 unavailable, and financial institutions needed rescuing. Recession caused spending to
 contract, and corporate profits declined. Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, AIG, Fannie Mae,
 Freddie Mac, Wachovia and Washington Mutual all required rescues. Bank capital,
 commercial paper and money market funds needed federal guarantees. After the
 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, people began to ponder the collapse of the financial
 system. As often happens in scary times, "possible" morphed into "probable," or at least
 something very much worth worrying about.

 Now a vicious circle replaced the virtuous one of just a few months earlier. And with its
 arrival, the fear of losing money replaced the fear of missing opportunity. As I've said
 before, I imagine most investors' cry was, "I don't care if I ever make a penny in the
 market again; I just don't want to lose any more. Get me out!"

 For most investors, no assumption was too negative to be true, and no potential
 return made the risk of loss worth bearing. High yield bonds at 19% yields. First lien
 leveraged loans at 18%. Investment grade bonds at 11%. None of these was sufficient to
 induce risk-taking.

 As I wrote in "The Limits to Negativism" (October 15, 2008), "Skepticism calls for
 pessimism when optimism is excessive. But it also calls for optimism when pessimism is
 excessive." By the fourth quarter of 2008, risk aversion ruled and risk tolerance had
 disappeared. A skeptical view toward excessive pessimism was called for at a time of
 unprecedented low asset prices, but few people could muster it. The credit markets
 offered the highest returns in their history, but fear of losing money kept most investors
 from seizing the opportunity.

 In the middle of this decade we saw a manic period in which losses were
 unimaginable. The resultant shortages of risk aversion and skepticism caused
 investors to buy at highs and assume unprecedented risks in order to avoid missing
 opportunity. This was followed - as usual - by a collapse in which no negative event
 could be ruled out and no return was high enough to induce buying, all because
 investors wanted nothing other than to avoid losing money.

 This cycle produced a treacherous, low-return period in which it was very hard to find
 investments promising good returns earned with safety, and then a period of collapse in
 which there were bargains everywhere but few investors possessed the requisite "dry

 powder" and intestinal fortitude with which to buy. That's the background. Where do
 we stand today?

 Signs of the Times

 Optimism, adventurousness and unworried behavior characterized the pre-crisis period,
 and investor behavior reflected those attitudes. In my memo "It's All Good" (July 16,
 2007), just before the onset of the crisis, I mentioned some of the warning signs in the
 credit markets:

 Unlike the historic norm, it's routine today to issue CCC-rated bonds. It's
 easy to borrow money for the express purpose of distributing cash to equity
 holders, magnifying the company's leverage. It's so easy to issue bonds
 with little or no creditor protection in the indenture that a label has been
 coined for them: "covenant-lite." And it's possible to issue bonds whose
 interest payments can be paid in more bonds at the option of the borrower.

 The first requirement for an elevated opportunity in distressed debt is the
 unwise extension of credit, which I define as the making of loans which
 borrowers will be unable to service if things get a little worse. This
 happens when lenders fail to require a sufficient margin of safety. . . .

 The default rate in the high yield bond universe is at a 25-year low on a
 rolling-twelve-month basis. Under such circumstances, how could the
 average supplier of capital be expected to maintain a high level of risk
 aversion and prudence, especially when doing so means ceding all the loan
 making to others? It's not for nothing that they say "The worst of loans are
 made in the best of times."

 The inspiration for today's memo came as my pile of clippings began to swell with
 indications that pre-crisis behavior is coming back. Here are excerpts from a few, with
 emphasis added in each case:

 On covenant-lite loans -

 Are debt investors just stupid? That might help explain why they're
 buying covenant-lite loans again. These deals, which carry few
 restrictions on borrowers, became a standard bearer for easy money. They
 may have helped some companies limp through the downturn - but they've
 left lenders saddled with lots of risk and little return.

 It's easy to see why companies like covenant-lite loans. . . . But for owners
 of the debt, the attraction is far less clear beyond the familiar short-term
 reach for yield. . . .

 Lyondell Chemical is paying [Libor plus 400 basis points] on its recent
 $500 million covenant-lite deal. And the energy refiner will emerge from
 bankruptcy with a much slimmer debt load than before it filed for Chapter

 Lyondell's terms are better than 2007's crop of covenant-lite loans, to be
 sure, but lenders still are essentially relinquishing their right to force
 companies into paying them more money, or exiting the loan entirely,
 should their creditworthiness tumble.

 So why are lenders doing it again? Lyondell Chemical's answer: investor
 demand for higher yielding assets. This is a familiar mantra while official
 interest rates remain low. But lenders should be mindful of loosening
 standards or risk finding themselves once again on the short end of the
 stick. ("Don't call it a comeback," breakingviews, April 5)

 On payment-in-kind loans and flexibility -

 Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry character famously held a gun to a
 suspect and asked: "Do you feel lucky?" Investors in credit markets
 seem to be saying yes, if Cerberus' refinancing of Freedom Group, maker
 of Remington firearms, is any indication.

 A deflating gun bubble backfired on the private equity firm's plans last
 year for an initial public offering of Freedom. Now trigger-happy credit
 investors are taking off their safeties and letting Cerberus unload some of
 its stake.

 The $225 million of notes are useful ammo for Cerberus. They allow
 Freedom to either pay the interest in cash or half in cash and half in
 additional notes at the company's discretion. The financing allows
 Cerberus to get cash back on its investment today by buying back preferred
 stock held by the private equity group ahead of an eventual IPO. . . .

 The buyers of these notes, though, are taking their chances. Freedom
 doesn't look overleveraged according to its historic cash flow - the
 company's debt level is about three times "adjusted EBITDA" for 2009.
 But sales of rival gun-makers are continuing to fall. . . .

 Moreover, these sorts of notes are notoriously difficult to price. The
 investor has to figure out the risk of the company encountering cash flow
 problems, whether the firm will actually pull the toggle trigger, and how
 much the PIK feature may reduce their potential recovery in the event of
 default. Indeed, many investors took drubbings on similar notes issued at

 the top of the credit boom. Caution is warranted when investors remove
 their trigger locks. ("Do you feel lucky?" breakingviews, March 31)

 On initial public offerings -

 It is springtime for IPOs. . . . KKR and Bain, two of the most
 aggressive private-equity firms during the buyout boom, are now as
 aggressively looking to cash out. They are leading what is expected to
 be a season of IPOs as long as the markets continue to stabilize or climb.
 The IPOs would allow the firms to partially cash out their stakes and
 return money to investors. They also could use the proceeds to pay down
 the sizable debt used to finance the takeovers. ("Bain, KKR to Push New
 Crop of IPOs," The Wall Street Journal, April 9)

 On leveraged loans -

 Even as worries escalate about the ability of highly rated countries to fund
 themselves, there is a buzz at the other end of the credit spectrum.
 Leveraged loans, a source of funding for private-equity acquisitions,
 are drawing investor interest again after a long period in the
 doldrums.

 In the U.S., there are signs of life in the collateralized-loan-obligation
 market, with the year's first deal not only refinancing an existing
 CLO but bringing in new money, too. In Europe, HarbourVest Partners
 is launching a listed fund to invest in mid-market leveraged loans.
 Leveraged-finance bankers are more bullish, and new loans have started to
 flow. . . .

 There are wider implications, too: Cash moving into the loan market
 represents a greater willingness to hold more illiquid assets, an
 important development. . . . ("A Pulse Finally Returns to the Leveraged-
 Loan Market," The Wall Street Journal, April 12)

 On dividend recaps -

 Blackstone Group LP and other private-equity firms are accelerating
 sales of junk bonds and leveraged loans to pay themselves dividends
 in a sign the market for the riskiest debt may be overheating.

 Apria Healthcare Group Inc., owned by Blackstone, is seeking consent
 from bondholders to sell notes to issue a dividend, following at least six
 similar offerings this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

 Including loans, companies have raised $10.8 billion in debt to fund
 payouts this year, compared with $1 billion in all of 2009 and $1.3 billion
 in the prior 12 months, according to Standard & Poor's LCD.

 Private-equity firms are taking advantage of record high-yield, high-risk
 bond sales and a rally in loans to extract cash from companies they own,
 awaiting a rebound in leveraged buyouts and initial public offerings. So-
 called dividend deals, which permeated debt markets in 2006 and 2007
 before the credit seizure, may signal investors are becoming too
 complacent, said William Quinn, chairman of American Beacon Advisors
 Inc.

 "You start to be concerned that you're increasing leverage, which was one
 of the things that created these problems in 2008," said Quinn, who helps
 oversee $45 billion for the fund manager in Fort Worth, Texas. "I
 understand why private-equity firms do it, but I would be
 concerned." ("Dividend Deals Rebound as Blackstone Seeks Cash,"
 Bloomberg, April 16)

 Companies may increase borrowing to pay shareholder dividends in a
 record year for junk bonds, Standard & Poor's said. . . .

 "We are starting to see the proceeds of high-yield issues being
 channeled to shareholders as dividends, something that is less-
 welcome from a credit perspective, reminiscent of the leveraged
 finance market back in 2007," analysts led by Taron Wade wrote . . . .

 Companies owned by LBO firms in 2007 issued a record 6.1 billion euros
 of loans in the first half to pay dividends to shareholders, data compiled by
 Fitch Ratings show.

 Private-equity firms "essentially decreased the risk of their portfolio
 equity investments, boosting their near-term equity returns at the expense
 of the credit quality of the companies themselves," according to S&P.
 ("Junk Bond Issuers Increase Dividend Deals, S&P Says," Bloomberg,
 April 20)

 On collateralized loan obligations -

 Citigroup is set to launch its second leveraged loan structured products
 transaction this year, this time for a large private equity client, as debt
 managers and bankers look to revitalise the markets which drove the
 buyout boom. . . .

 If the transaction goes ahead soon, it will be only the second CLO to be
 sold since the beginning of 2009. Last month Citigroup structured a
 $525m CLO managed by US fund manager Fraser Sullivan Investment
 Management. . . .

 Leveraged finance bankers are hopeful the CLO market can take off again
 as it would provide greater availability of finance for leveraged loans, the
 engine of the private equity industry. The market for CLOs ground to a
 halt after the collapse of Lehman Brothers pushed credit markets into
 freefall. Even the most actively traded leveraged loans lost as much as a
 third of their face value in the depths of the crisis. ("Citigroup markets
 second CLO," Financial News, April 19)

 On buyouts -

 Private equity firms bear some resemblance to children at a
 fairground: they jump on a ride as dealmaking gathers pace, whizzing
 faster and faster, before jumping off as the cycle slows down. As the
 ride starts to gather pace again, buyout firms are back, with some
 eyeing the biggest rides. (Emphasis in the original)

 Mega-deals - transactions over $10 bn that were favoured in the boom
 years of 2006-2008 but have been crimped by the lack of debt - are
 making a comeback. Last week, Blackstone Group and other investors
 were in talks to acquire financial data processing company Fidelity
 National Information Services, according to The Wall Street Journal.

 The acquisition of Fidelity, which has a market capitalisation approaching
 $10 bn and about $3 bn in debt, would be the largest leveraged buyout
 since the credit crisis struck. . . .

 Bankers and buyout executives said the resurrection of large buyouts
 was being driven by a booming high-yield bond market. With low
 interest rates in Europe and the US, investors are more willing to take
 the risk of weaker credits because it allows them to secure yields
 unavailable in other forms of lending. ("Are dealmakers ready for
 another white-knuckle ride?" Financial News, May 10)

 On investor psychology -

 Irrational equanimity is back. Not only are developed market stocks
 back to pre-Lehman levels, but investors' comfort levels are in a zone
 not seen since the eve of the credit crisis in early 2007. Apart from US
 stock indices, this shows up in the price investors will pay to insure

 against volatility, with the CBOE Vix index down to its lowest since the
 crisis eve of July 2007, and in sharp reductions in cash cushions held by
 institutions.

 Merrill Lynch's widely followed survey of fund managers . . . finds that
 more now want companies to pay higher dividends or make more capital
 expenditures than see them pay down debts. . . .

 Such equanimity is not totally irrational. Macroeconomic data in the past
 month have run ahead of expectations. When the herd trampling forward
 is this bullish, it is not a good idea to stand in its way. But it would be
 easier to feel comfortable with current share price levels if investors
 showed a little more unease. Complacency on this scale suggests risk of
 a correction. ("Investor sentiment," Financial Times, April 14)

 Just as one returning swallow doesn't make a summer, anecdotal evidence of rising risk
 tolerance does not mean entire markets have returned to dangerous levels. But it's a fact
 that issuers and investment bankers can do things today that they couldn't do a year or
 two ago. The door is open to transactions that wouldn't be possible if risk aversion
 were running high. The clear inference is that fear of loss has declined and fear of
 missed opportunity has come back to life. That's an important observation.

 Where Did the Unease Go?

 Just a short while ago, I believed investors had been sufficiently traumatized that the
 willingness to bear risk would be absent for years. But it came back in just a matter of
 months. What explains that?

 For one thing, the crisis - as painful as it was - was surprisingly brief. The worst of it
 began in the third quarter of 2008 with the disclosure of weakness at financial
 institutions. The onset of the most intense part of the crisis can be dated to Lehman
 Brothers' September 15 bankruptcy filing. Remarkably, high yield bonds began to
 recover just three months later, with most of the indices showing gains of roughly 5% for
 the month of December. So in the credit markets, the worst pain lasted only about three
 months and quickly gave way to recovery.

 And what kicked off the recovery? Fear of missing opportunity was resurrected by the
 Fed and other central banks which forced interest rates on short-term government debt to
 near zero. It might have been the banks' intent, or it might have been an unintended
 consequence, but those low rates pushed investors to engage in riskier behavior. The
 returns on T-bills and money market funds went to a fraction of a percent, meaning
 investors had to crawl out on the limb in pursuit of returns they could live with.

 Further, governments flooded the system with liquidity and produced the opposite of
 crowding out. When governments are big issuers of debt, it can be hard for non-

 government issuers to raise money. But when governments are big buyers of securities
 instead, the capital they inject into the markets can make it easy for others to issue
 securities.

 Investors flooded risky companies with money in March even as the
 government prepares to shut down a key engine driving one of the greatest
 corporate-bond rallies in history.

 A total $31.5 billion in new high-yield debt, otherwise known as junk
 bonds, hit the market through Tuesday, exceeding the previous monthly
 record in November 2006. Partly propelling the activity: The Federal
 Reserve's massive mortgage-buying program, [which recently came to an
 end].

 By buying $1.25 trillion of mortgage securities, the Fed absorbed a flood
 of assets that otherwise would have needed buyers. That kept money in
 the hands of investors, who went searching for something else to buy. The
 Fed's underpinning encouraged investors to seek riskier, higher-yielding
 securities. A natural choice: corporate bonds. ("Bonds Cap Epic
 Comeback," The Wall Street Journal, March 31)

 One of the prime tasks investors must perform is to stay alert to extreme behavior and
 take hints as to what we should do from what we see taking place around us. This is best
 expressed in Warren Buffett's helpful reminder: "The less prudence with which others
 conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own
 affairs."

 Investor behavior between 2003 and mid-2007 was sending some very worrisome
 signals. It's obvious in retrospect that all one had to do was take heed and lean in the
 opposite direction. But observations regarding the past are no help for purposes other
 than education. For observations to be profitable, they must relate to the present and the
 future.

 Investors have made a substantial move back in the direction of pre-crisis behavior.
 That behavior has to be recognized and monitored. The pendulum has moved away
 from the depression, panic, skepticism and excessive risk aversion we saw in the
 fourth quarter of 2008, and with the disappearance of those characteristics have
 gone the great bargain opportunities.

 Uncertainty and fundamental weakness at the depth of the crisis were offset by
 irrationally low prices and the potential for a rebound in risk tolerance, making most
 assets a screaming buy. With most of the great bargains gone - along with excess risk
 aversion - macro uncertainties should no longer be overlooked. Thus the caution,
 discipline, patience, selectivity and discernment that were so unnecessary in 2009
 are absolutely essential today.

 * * *

 I started this memo in late April, but I didn't get it out before Greece's financial crisis
 burst into full bloom last week. This gives me an opportunity to discuss the significance
 of the recent developments (not the substance, however; that'll have to await another
 memo).

 Investing defensively requires that when everything seems to be going well and
 investors are feeling positive, we must sense the implicit danger and prepare for
 negative developments.

 In the mid-2000s, I began to warn that with asset prices full, investors optimistic and their
 behavior aggressive, it was important to worry about things that could come along to
 derail the markets. When asked what they might be, my list of possibilities would go like
 this:

 recession,
 credit crunch,
 collapse of the dollar,
 exogenous events such as terrorist attacks, or
 something else.

 The most dangerous possibility, I pointed out, was the last one. Markets and market
 participants can adjust to things they see coming. What usually knocks them for a loop
 are things they don't anticipate. "We're not expecting any surprises" is one of my
 favorite oxymorons. By definition, surprises are things that aren't anticipated, and thus
 their arrival can be traumatizing.

 Just a few months ago, I published a memo called "Tell Me I'm Wrong" (January 22), in
 which I listed a number of things that worried me. These included our reliance on
 government stimulus and artificially low interest rates; the uncertain outlook for
 consumer spending, jobs and state and municipal finances; and the risks pertaining to
 inflation, exchange rates and interest rates. Here's how I concluded:

 My goal in this memo isn't to express a forecast. I know no forecast - and
 certainly not mine - is likely to be correct. What I do want to do is
 caution that the considerable risks I see may be less than fully appreciated
 by those setting asset prices today. The greatest market risks lie in failure
 of the macro economy to live up to the expectations embodied in today's
 prices. . . .

 Most people view the future as likely to repeat past patterns, which it may
 or may not do. They tend to think of the future in terms of a single

 scenario, whereas it really consists of a wide range of possibilities.
 (Remember Elroy Dimson's trenchant observation that "risk means more
 things can happen than will happen.") And to the extent they do consider
 a variety of possibilities, few people include ones that haven't been part of
 recent experience.

 The uncertainties discussed above tell me today's distribution of
 possibilities has a substantial left-hand (i.e., negative) tail, probably
 greater than at most times in the past. The proper response should be
 to discount asset prices, allowing a substantial margin for error.
 Forecasts should be conservative, yield spreads should incorporate
 ample risk premiums, valuation parameters should be below the long-
 term norms, and investor behavior should be prudent.

 Conspicuously missing from my list of worries was Greece (and all it entails); thus it falls
 firmly in the category of "something else." Last week it dominated the headlines and
 depressed markets worldwide. Thus in this short time I have proved two things: first, I
 know little more than others about what the future will bring and, second, when most
 investors turn optimistic, it becomes important to worry.

 The issue of Greece and its debt has been on investors' radar screens for months, but few
 people seem to have understood its ramifications and the risks it presented to the markets.
 Then, in recent weeks, things began to be discussed daily in the media - such as Greece's
 profligacy and the risks involved in admitting it to the European Union; Europe's lack of
 an established mechanism for dealing with a problem of this nature; and its reliance on
 Germany to contribute voluntarily to a solution - that in hindsight it seems should have
 been obvious. This tells us a few important things about investing:

 Investors generally overestimate their ability to see the future, and the worst of them
 act as if they know exactly what lies ahead.
 It's important to worry about what's coming next. The fact that we don't know what
 it is shouldn't permit us to think there's nothing to worry about.
 Low asset prices allow us to invest aggressively, without much consideration given to
 worrisome fundamentals and the possibility of negative surprises. But as prices rise,
 so should our degree of concern over these things.

 The bottom line is this: the fact that we don't know where trouble will come from
 shouldn't allow us to feel comfortable in times when prices are full. The higher
 prices are relative to intrinsic value, the more we should allow for the unknown.

 The recovery of 2009 in the face of significant fundamental uncertainty meant that the
 markets were reincorporating optimism and thus vulnerable to surprise and
 disappointment. This in itself should be sufficient to induce caution.


Memo: It’s Greek to Me.

In the early part of this decade, I reviewed a few books for the Sunday Los Angeles Times.
Here's how I began my assessment of Pete Peterson's Running on Empty in 2004:

 Consider Sam. He's always been regarded as the brightest guy in town, and
 maybe the handsomest. He has the best job and lives in the best house. He
 spends aggressively - detractors would say hedonistically - to support a lifestyle
 that many others envy, but he shows good character by providing generously for
 his sick and elderly relatives.

 There are, however, a few problems. In recent years, he's been spending more
 than he makes, and his expenditures appear likely to grow faster than his income.
 He covers each year's shortfall by borrowing from other members of the
 community. (They've always been glad to lend him money because of his good
 standing in town.) But this adds increasingly to his debt, and thus to the next
 year's interest (and shortfall). In other words, he seems to follow Winston
 Churchill's dictum: "It saves a lot of trouble if, instead of having to earn money
 and save it, you can just go and borrow it."

 Finally, with the number of family members Sam cares for increasing, with him
 promising each of them an increasing stipend, and with his relatives - even the
 sick ones - living longer, it seems clear that in the future, the cost of supporting
 them will grow considerably faster than his income.

 An annual deficit. Attachment to a lavish lifestyle. Growing indebtedness and
 related increases in interest costs. Dependence on others to finance the shortfall
 and the risk that those lenders will withdraw their loans or charge higher interest
 rates. A commitment to pay for the welfare of others that threatens to grow out
 of control.

Pete's book focused on the tendency of the United States to ignore the cost of its social
programs, run deficits and expand debt, and the "Sam" in my analogy was, of course, Uncle
Sam. But now other nations have jumped the line and usurped the above description. Like
most of Western civilization, it started with Greece.

Because I was in London much of the time since Greece burst into prominence, I may be able to
add some insight from a European vantage point. This period in London was unusual for me, in
that with this topic in the headlines I was far more a student than a teacher. Most Americans
don't start off sensitized to international economics and, especially, currency matters. It's been
challenging to organize all I've learned and boil it down for a memo, but here it is.

Strange Bedfellows

"Shared values" is one of the things I credit for Oaktree's success over the years. All of
Oaktree's senior managers are conservative, cautious people; we all agree that risk control and
consistency hold the keys to long-term investment success; and we all put clients' account
performance ahead of our company's profit. Shared values make it easy to run an organization
and particularly easy to reach agreement on policies and tactics.

Now imagine what it would be like to run an enterprise where (a) some of the constituents
believed much more in thrift, discipline and transparency than others and (b) there was no
mechanism for making sure everyone played according to the agreed-upon rules. Welcome to
Europe.

In the 1950s Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and West Germany came
together to form the European Coal and Steel Community, European Atomic Energy
Community and European Economic Community, which in 1967 combined as the European
Community. Denmark, Ireland and the U.K. joined in 1973, and Greece, Spain and Portugal
joined in the 1980s. Membership has since expanded to 27 nations, and the name "European
Union" (E.U.) was adopted in 1993. In 1999, eleven nations (since expanded to 16) agreed to
form the euro zone and replace their individual currencies with the euro. Europe seemed to
have accomplished the daunting task of pulling together its nations and adopting a single
currency. This was a delicate balancing act, but for years it seemed to go quite well.

It was a requirement for success that all the nations share fiscal policy. However, as in most
economic alliances, there were incentives to nibble at the rules. And, believing more is better,
the E.U. admitted nations with less uniform values. The desire to create a common currency
and expand the reach of the union - to achieve a scale more comparable to economic powers
like the United States - colored decisions regarding expansion and ultimately led to trouble.

To get a feeling for what happened, let's say you and I are such good friends that we decide to
combine our economic strength to apply together for a credit card with better terms and a higher
limit. We agree we'll each (a) refrain from spending more than we earn and (b) receive and pay
that part of the bill that relates to our own charges. All goes well, and eventually we agree to
admit a third member to our association. But the new member doesn't share our commitment to
thrift and integrity, wants to live a better life than he can afford, and thus charges more on the
card than he earns. Our strong combined credit rating enables him to do so, and his balance on
the credit card starts to swell. When it comes out that our association is heavily indebted, we
chip in to pay off the unpaid balance, even though only one of us ran it up. In fact, since the
prodigal third member spent more than he made, he has nothing to contribute to paying off the
debt; thus you and I - despite having behaved more responsibly - are stuck with the burden.

Greece is that new member of the arrangement, and it (like a number of other countries) wanted
to give its people a better life than they can afford, financed from the public treasury. Without
membership in the E.U. - or if the rules on deficits had been enforced - Greece's economic
reality would have limited what it could do for its citizens. But E.U. membership enabled it to
borrow and spend to excess. Here's what the Bank of Spain's governor said in April 2007:
"The single monetary policy has meant that excessively loose conditions for our economy have
been almost continuous" (Telegraph.co.uk, May 30). The same was true of Greece.

My English friend Rodney Leach is a Member of Parliament and a committed leader of the
"Eurosceptics" who have campaigned to improve the E.U. and prevent Britain from adopting
the euro in place of sterling. His draft of a coming paper influenced my understanding of the
situation: "Once inside the Club," he writes, " . . . the Mediterraneans resumed their old habits.
The temptation was irresistible to borrow at the low interest rates bestowed on them by
Germany's participation. Greece in particular indulged itself by completely abandoning
financial discipline."

Greece was able to violate the agreed-upon 3% cap on E.U. members' deficits, abetted by
generous capital markets and the failure to enforce the limit, and it engaged in financial
transactions designed to hide its growing debt. It bears noting that much of what's true today
about Greece has been true for years. But people didn't understand its significance to the extent
they do today, or didn't find it worrisome, and short-term-oriented politicians had every
incentive to ignore the problem rather than confront it and admit that their noble experiment was
fraying.

Thus it emerged in early April that Greece and Greek companies had run up substantial debts
that would be hard to repay. It didn't take long for people to figure out that the same was true
about the rest of the "PIIGS": Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain. In May, some
unfortunate remarks by Hungary's Finance Minister made it a candidate for similar treatment.
Then Estonia came under the spotlight, and the process seemed to cascade non-stop.

A Problem of Substance

The real problem in Greece and the other countries - especially what Rodney calls the
"Mediterraneans" - isn't one of deficits and debt. Those are merely the results and the
symptoms. And if the problem were Greece alone, the smallness of its economy and financial
system would render it easily fixable. The problems are more substantial, structural and
widespread. (I looked at 17 European nations; they all ran deficits in 2009, and only two of
those deficits were below the E.U.'s target of 3% of GDP. In ascending order, the deficits in
Belgium, Cyprus, Slovakia, France, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Greece and Ireland
were all between 6% and 14%.)

The ingredients that contributed to the European crisis are many:

 Slow-growing, unproductive and uncompetitive economies.
 Low birthrates and aging populations. ("In the 1950s there were seven workers for every
 retiree in advanced economies. By 2050, the ratio in the European Union will drop to 1.3 to
 1." - New York Times, May 23)
 Generous benefits and social services; cradle-to-grave safety nets.
 Extensive vacations and strict limits on the work week.
 Early retirement.
 Artificially high debt ratings and resultant low interest rates.

In "What Worries Me" (August 28, 2008), I expressed concern about the fact that Americans
expect the world's highest standard of living even though the U.S. is no longer a leader in
manufacturing output and global competitiveness. Certainly this is the case in spades for
Greece, whose economy is largely irrelevant but which wanted to meet its people's demands.

In April, as the problem began to unfold, I heard a Greek taxi driver express his worry on the
radio: "I might not be able to retire at 53," the average retirement age. How can it be rational
for a nation with a limited economy to enable its citizens to retire at age 53? Well, it isn't.
Greece was able to outspend its revenues for years because it benefited from the "reflected
halo" of the E.U.'s financial strength and low euro-related interest rates.

On June 4, 2005, the International Herald Tribune carried an op-ed piece by Thomas Friedman
in which he presciently observed the following:

 . . . [the forces of globalization are] eating away at Europe's welfare states. It is
 interesting because French voters are trying to preserve a 35-hour work week in a
 world where Indian engineers are ready to work a 35-hour day. Good luck. . . .

 I feel sorry for Western European blue-collar workers. A world of benefits they
 have known for 50 years is coming apart, and their governments don't seem to
 have a strategy for coping.

 A few weeks ago, Franz Muentefering, chairman of Germany's Social
 Democratic Party, compared private equity firms which buy up failing businesses,
 downsize them and then sell them to "a swarm of locusts."

 The fact that a top German politician has resorted to attacking capitalism to win
 votes tells me just how explosive the next decade in Western Europe could be, as
 some of these aging, inflexible economies which have grown used to six-week
 vacations and unemployment insurance that is almost as good as having a job
 become intimately integrated with Eastern Europe, India and China in a flattening
 world. . . .

 Next to India, Western Europe looks like an assisted-living facility with Turkish
 nurses.

In a nation with closed borders, a government can do almost about anything it wants. It can
print money with which to buy things for people who don't earn those things themselves . . . as
long as sellers will accept that newly printed money at face value. But in a global economy,
competitive forces make it hard for people - or countries - to live better than their output
justifies.

Less fundamental but more colorful, I've learned about a number of factors which exacerbate
the situation in Greece and elsewhere. While just anecdotal, these tales are rampant in Europe:

 As may be typical of Mediterranean nations, compliance with Greek tax laws is, shall we
 say, "spotty." In this country of 11 million people, just a few thousand report incomes
 There's a box to check on the tax form if you have a swimming pool, and 324 residents of
 Athens said "yes." However, when tax investigators checked satellite photos, they got a
 slightly different figure: 16,974. That's 2% compliance. (The New York Times, May 10)
 As part of the unorthodox arrangement, these countries have significant "black" or
 "shadow" economies. In Greece, 20-30% of transactions are said to take place in cash
 and/or through overseas bank accounts, unreported in both cases.
 The prevailing rule in Greece seems to be "4-2-4." If you have a pending tax obligation of
 €10, you meet with the tax collector. You hand him four for himself, you pay the authorities
 two, and you keep four. It's not a fluke that the typical Athens tax collector, with a salary of
 €50,000, is said to own real estate worth €2 million.
 Going the proverbial baker's dozen one better, workers in Greece's public sector had quite a
 deal: they were paid two "bonus months" per year.
 In Spain, half of all employees are unionized and protected by very strict work rules that
 limit efficiency and essentially preclude layoffs. This means any steps to cut costs fall on
 the rest of the work force, which is hit disproportionately.
 It seems that Italy (an E.U. founder but also a "Mediterranean") maintains "a fleet of more
 than 626,000 official cars, more than 10 times the number in France, Germany or the UK."
 (Financial Times, May 12)

Together these things - low output, high government spending, under-the-table business
dealings, tax evasion, and financial profligacy - represent a recipe for trouble. Today's
developments merely prove that things that don't make sense can't go on forever:

 Perpetually spending more than you bring in.
 Enjoying a standard of living you can't afford.
 Running an annual deficit that increases constantly as a percentage of GDP.
 Owing amounts that increase constantly as a percentage of GDP.
 Doing all the above while having a currency as strong - and an interest rate as low - as in
 nations where these things are not the case.

Things can go on longer than they should, and these probably have, but eventually there's a
price to be paid. The world is up in arms today over everything that's wrong with the European
financial picture, even though these conditions probably aren't much changed from a few years
ago. It's just that now people have decided to focus on them.

The Role of Debt

As I mentioned above, debt isn't the problem, or the cause of the problem. But it has been the
facilitator.

In "The Long View" (January 9, 2009), I wrote (albeit without reference to Greece) about a
strong uptrend over the last few decades in what I called "expansiveness":

 Every business, government, non-profit organization or individual has a certain
 amount of equity capital, net worth or surplus. That capital, in turn, will support a
 certain level of activity: production and sales, lending, government action,
 charitable grants or consumption. But over the last several decades, if you
 wanted to do more of these things than your capital permitted, you could
 borrow capital from someone else.

Without credit - I think back to my pre-credit card college days of 45 years ago, for
example - you couldn't spend money you didn't have. Thus you couldn't buy things you
couldn't afford. Then the miracle of credit came along and it became easy to get in over
your head.

What would have happened if governments couldn't finance deficits by issuing debt? Greece
would only have been able to pay the benefits it could afford. Less pleasant, but perhaps
healthier.

And what would have happened if builders weren't able to borrow, and thus had to sell each
newly built home before they could erect the next? Spain wouldn't have been the site of a
boom in which 2.8 million homes were built (with only 1.5 million sold), and with as many
building permits issued as in France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands put together.

The Wall Street Journal of November 24, 2008 carried the following quotation from Irving
Fisher, writing 76 years ago ("The Debt-Deflation Theory of Great Depressions,"
Econometrica, March 1933):

 When it comes to booms gone bust, "over-investment and over-speculation are
 often important; but they would have far less serious results were they not
 conducted with borrowed money."

While this statement wasn't made with regard to Greece or even to government activities in
general, it is clearly relevant to the current situation.

In recent years, most of the nations of the world spent more than they took in to give their
citizens more of what they wanted. As long as the capital markets were open, few could
think of a reason why this policy wouldn't work forever. Economic units all over the globe
were able to borrow to cover deficits. All that mattered was the ability to service the debt, even
if that required borrowing money to pay interest. No one seemed to demand the ability to repay.

When I was younger - in what seems like a distant past - national debt began to expand, and I
remember heated debate regarding the significance, wisdom and likely consequences of that
trend. The subject receded in recent years, since every nation now does it to some extent and
people became inured to the controversy, as they tend to do.

Two sentences stand out on this subject, from Bill Julian of Bill Julian Research on April 11.
He quotes John Maynard Keynes as having said, "Government debt is really debt we owe to
ourselves. So it doesn't matter." But today, most nations' debt is no longer all "to ourselves,"
as nations with surpluses are largely financing the ones with deficits. Thus it's hard to conclude
national debt doesn't matter. Welcome to 2010.

In the "old days," government deficits were often part of counter-cyclical stimulus, a
concept with which Lord Keynes is identified. It seems logical that when its economy is
depressed, a nation will spend more than it receives in taxes in order to stimulate. Then,
in times of prosperity, it will cut expenditures, run a surplus and pay down debt. But
permanent deficits appeared in the late twentieth century, and thereafter national debt
has grown in good times and bad. The idea of national debt being repaid has evaporated.
Today, public and private institutions in Greece, Spain and Portugal owe €2 trillion to
foreigners, with no possibility of repayment in sight.

Solutions and Stumbling Blocks

Thus far, most of the actions being taken to address the crisis are of two types: financial
maneuvers to calm the financial markets in the short term, and austerity measures designed to
reduce deficits in the long term.

The United States' credit crisis of late 2008 serves as a model for what must be done. The
elements that arise in a credit crisis are consistent: uncertainty regarding the future, fear of
credit losses, and refusal to make loans. Financial systems run on confidence, and, when
confidence dries up, things can grind to a halt. Clearly, then, the most immediate efforts
must be to restore confidence and keep credit flowing.

This problem is particularly severe at financial institutions (and what is a national economy
today other than a financial system, hopefully with a manufacturing sector tacked on?).
Financial institutions are, by definition, marked by high leverage, and if confidence declines, the
providers of credit tend to ask for their money back. Since these institutions never have enough
cash on hand to satisfy the demands of the would-be withdrawers, they can fall prey to a run on
the bank. The first task, then, is to restore confidence and keep capital available.

Thus, at the beginning of May, the E.U. put together a rescue package for Greece worth €110
billion. And then, when the possibility of contagion to Spain, Italy and Portugal began to be
recognized, that was increased on May 10 to €750 billion (or $900 billion, a figure remarkably
similar to the U.S.'s program). In addition, the European Central Bank established a program to
buy government bonds of the affected nations, along the lines of our "quantitative easing."

Many European governments have announced plans to reduce deficits. Their tactics include
reduced spending, freezes or cuts in public sector employment and wages, and higher retirement
ages. Some have enacted tax increases to augment revenues. Greece even says it's going to
start collecting more of the taxes that are owed. Austerity is all the talk in Europe, and some
leaders are predicting periods of substantial suffering. That's what happens when a borrow-
and-spend cycle that has advanced beyond prudence is brought to a halt.

It's important to recognize, however, that one potential solution - traditionally perhaps
the easiest - isn't available to the members of the European Union: currency devaluation.

A key element in the situation is the absence of independently floating exchange rates. Think
for a moment about international finance. Countries differ in terms of growth rates,
productivity and inflation rates. In recognition of the differences, interest rates and exchange

rates change relative to those of other countries. In general, countries that are better off in terms
of growth, productivity and inflation will have stronger currencies and pay lower interest rates.

The easiest way for a nation with excessive foreign debt to solve its problem is through
devaluation. If the drachma weakens relative to the deutschemark, a Greek who owes a
German a certain number of drachmas now owes him fewer deutschemarks (of course, if the
debt is denominated in deutschemarks, he now owes him more drachmas). This process can
occur through an explicit devaluation or through hyperinflation, and we'd be overwhelmingly
likely to see it in action from a standalone Greece.

Between 1980 and 2000, the drachma depreciated by roughly 85% relative to the deutschemark,
a reflection of economic reality. But with the countries of Europe tied together with a single
currency, this can't happen.

Nations throughout Europe are doing what they can. That means reassuring financial markets
and implementing austerity measures, but not devaluing (as long as the debtor nations in
question remain part of the E.U.).

So, Will It Work?

"Will It Work?" was the title of a memo I wrote on March 5, 2009, discussing whether the
Obama administration's rescue plan would be successful. The problems were new and huge,
like today's in Europe, and the solutions being attempted were untested, also like today's.

The last section of "Will It Work?" was devoted to the three things I said had to be
accomplished in order for the rescue to be effective: delever the economy, replace the capital
that has been destroyed, and restore confidence. The recipe in Europe is no different, although
the U.S. government had to shore up the financial institutions, whereas in Europe governments
first have to support other governments.

In addition, there are wrinkles in Europe that the U.S. didn't face to the same degree. They can
make it challenging to solve problems and especially to reach agreement quickly:

 The European Union consists of 27 sovereign nations, each with its own central bank and
 finance ministers. In addition there are the European Central Bank ("ECB"), the European
 parliament and the E.U. ministers.
 The countries have very different political views and are led by people from all over the
 political spectrum.
 The approach of nations to the problem will be colored by history that in some cases
 includes war and occupation. Countries will be asked to bail out others they fought against
 in the past.
 Finally, the countries' financial status varies widely. Only a few - primarily Germany - can
 contribute meaningfully to a bailout, and they will be asked to carry the vast majority of the
 burden. Will they be willing to do so?

As an indication of the intra-European differences, The Wall Street Journal said the following
on June 15:

 Germany views the crisis on the euro zone's Southern fringe as a symptom of
 other countries' failure to copy Germany's fiscal discipline and structural
 overhauls to its economy. Its proposed remedies focus mainly on pushing other
 countries to cut budget deficits.

 France, however, believes Germany's large trade surplus and weak domestic
 demand are part of the euro zone's problem, since they force weaker economies
 to pay for their imports with debt, rather than through exports to the German
 market, Europe's biggest.

In addition to political complexity, efforts to solve the problem will run into two important
issues:

 Austerity measures and tax increases are anti-stimulative, and they are being applied
 at a time when the economies in question are weak and need stimulus. Economic
 historians such as Ben Bernanke recognize that adding liquidity is the best way to deal
 with a slowdown, and that the withdrawal of liquidity exacerbated the Great
 Depression.

 In the long run, reducing deficits and debt will not be enough. The countries in
 question have to increase their productivity and competitiveness.

In "Will It Work?" I quoted from Paul Krugman (The New York Times of February 16, 2009):

 As the great American economist Irving Fisher pointed out in the 1930s, the
 things people and companies do when they realize they have too much debt
 tend to be self-defeating when everyone tries to do them at the same time.
 Attempts to sell assets and pay off debt deepen the plunge in asset prices, further
 reducing net worth. Attempts to save more translate into a collapse of consumer
 demand, deepening the economic slump. (Emphasis added)

The yoking together of the European nations introduces some interesting ramifications. Some
Northern European export economies - Germany in particular - are doing quite well. At this
stage of the cycle, they might be considering rate increases and their currencies might be
strengthening. But it's doubtful the ECB will raise rates anytime soon, and the euro has
weakened versus other currencies. Thus, for example, the German economy and German
exports will be stimulated when they arguably don't need it. Germany will export more than it
otherwise might have, with some of its gains recirculated in the form of aid to other countries.
Good so far, but possibly inflationary. Complicated and not easy.

The analysis of sovereign debt is in large part political, not economic. Thus the open
questions are political, as described above, complicated by the multi-national aspect of the E.U.
and the absence of provisions for disciplining financial non-compliers, ejecting members or
winding down the Union.

But as we saw in the U.S. in 2008 and 2009, there should be little doubt that everything possible
will be done to save the euro and the E.U. (albeit perhaps with one or two fewer members
and/or a touch of "debt rescheduling"). They're likely to continue to exist, but many of the key
questions in Europe surround the level of economic vibrancy we'll see.

My purpose in writing this memo was to summarize and explain the developments in Europe,
and that's the vein in which I started. But then I started to think more broadly.

We Have Met the Enemy and He Is Us

According to The New York Times, a leading central banker addressed his legislature on June 9
regarding his country's fiscal operation, which he said "appears to be on an unsustainable path."

 "A variety of projections that extrapolate current policies and make plausible
 assumptions about the future evolution of the economy," he said "show a
 structural budget gap that is both large relative to the size of the economy
 and increasing over time. . . ."

 "In addition, government expenditures on health care for both retirees and non-
 retirees have continued to rise rapidly as increases in the costs of care have
 exceeded increases in incomes. To avoid sharp, disruptive shifts in spending
 programs and tax policies in the future, and to retain the confidence of the
 public and the markets, we should be planning now how we will meet these
 looming budgetary challenges." (Emphasis added)

Greece? No. Spain? No. Portugal, Italy or Great Britain? None of the above. That was Ben
Bernanke speaking before the Budget Committee of the House of Representatives. Thus
my use above of the most famous line from Walt Kelly's comic strip "Pogo." Greece and the
other members of "Club Med" may be on the hot seat today, but few developed nations are
exempt, and certainly not the U.S. The differences between the countries in the headlines and
many others are matters of degree, not kind.

David Leonhardt's column in The New York Times of May 12 provides a good way to start in on
this subject:

 It's easy to look at the protesters and the politicians in Greece - and at the other
 European countries with huge debts - and wonder why they don't get it. They
 have been enjoying more generous government benefits than they can afford. No
 mass rally and no bailout fund will change that. Only benefit cuts or tax
 increases can.

 Yet in the back of your mind comes a nagging question: how different, really, is
 the United States?

 The numbers on our federal debt are becoming frighteningly familiar. The debt
 is projected to equal 140 percent of gross domestic product within two decades.
 Add in the budget troubles of state governments, and the true shortfall grows

 even larger. Greece's debt, by comparison, equals about 115 percent of its
 G.D.P. today.

 The United States will probably not face the same kind of crisis as Greece,
 for all sorts of reasons. But the basic problem is the same. Both countries
 have a bigger government than they're paying for. And politicians,
 spendthrift as some may be, are not the main source of the problem.

 We, the people, are.

 We have not figured out the kind of government we want. We're in favor of
 Medicare, Social Security, good schools, wide highways, a strong military -
 and low taxes. Dealing with this disconnect will be the central economic
 issue of the next decade, in Europe, Japan and [the U.S.]. . . .

 As societies become richer, citizens tend to want better schools, better medical
 care and other government services. [The U.S.] is following that pattern, but
 without paying the necessary taxes. That combination has us on a course to
 Greece-like debt.

 As a rough estimate, the government will have to find spending cuts and tax
 increases equal to 7 to 10 percent of GDP. The longer we wait, the bigger the
 cuts will need to be (because of the accumulating interest costs).

 Seven percent of GDP is about $1 trillion today. In concrete terms . . . the
 combined budgets of the Education, Energy, Homeland Security, Justice, Labor,
 State, Transportation and Veterans Affairs Departments are less than $600
 billion. (Emphasis added)

Leonhardt provides some data for "cyclically adjusted primary balance as a percentage
of GDP" that make for frightening comparisons:

The Times defines "primary balance" as ". . . a measure of each country's medium-term deficit
as a percentage of GDP excluding interest payments and assuming that unemployment in all
countries drops significantly (to what economists consider 'full employment')." In other words,
these projections incorporate a good bit of optimism. The U.S. deficit is swollen by stimulus
measures that should shrink, but the data still make us look bad in some pretty bad company.

The U.S. is better off than Europe in a number of ways:

 Its national debt isn't high as a percentage of GDP (according to CIA data, our ratio in 2009
 was only 53%, versus 113-115% for Greece and Italy, and 62-77% for the Netherlands, the
 United Kingdom, Germany, Portugal and France).
 It benefits from having the world's primary reserve currency.
 Its Treasury securities are still a primary destination during any flight to quality (thereby
 reducing its interest costs).
 It possesses advantages in terms of top educational institutions, natural resources, creativity
 and intellectual progress.

On the other hand, its drawbacks include a tradition of deficit spending; heavy total indebted-
ness (especially at the household level); many of the demographic issues that I described as
affecting Europe (e.g., aging population, potential for structurally high unemployment); costly
entitlement programs; declining competitiveness and a shrinking manufacturing base.

Including the private sector, total U.S. debt stood at 358% of GDP in late 2008. That compares
to about 200% of GDP prior to the Great Depression and a peak of 300% in 1933 (sources:
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Federal Reserve and Census Bureau). The U.S., too, will have
to go through some major belt-tightening . . . painful if it starts soon, but much more so if
it is delayed until the future promises are allowed to build up further.

I think David Brooks put it very well in The New York Times on May 13:

 If you're elected president or prime minister in pretty much any country in the
 developed world today, you're faced with the same set of challenges: to reduce
 national deficits without choking off a fragile recovery; to trim the welfare state
 and raise taxes while still funding the things that lead to long-term growth; to try
 to enact brutally painful measures at a time when voters don't trust their leaders;
 to do it at a time when politics are polarized and a hundred different interest
 groups have the ability to block change.

 The chances that the world's leaders are going to be able to do these things
 successfully are between slim and none. It's hard enough to figure out the right
 mix of spending cuts and tax increases. It's nearly impossible to build a political
 majority willing to enact them. Sometime over the next decade or so, the world
 will probably suffer from another series of crushing fiscal crises with significant
 economic pain and maximum political turmoil.

While Brooks led off with the paragraphs reproduced above, he found "Glimmers of Hope" (the
title of his column) in the constructive budgetary approach being adopted by the new governing
coalition in Great Britain.

This assessment from the Milken Institute should provide some motivation for problem solving:

 By 2020, trillion-dollar deficits will become the norm even in years of solid
 economic growth and low unemployment, rather than an unpleasant aberration
 linked to a deep recession.

 Absent wrenching changes in fiscal policy, things will only get worse after that.
 The retirement of the baby boom generation and the growth of health costs at a
 rate far faster than the growth of GDP mean that government spending on Social
 Security, Medicare and Medicaid (which pays for most nursing-home care for
 the elderly) is likely to explode. By the nonpartisan Congressional Budget
 Office's reckoning, spending on those three programs alone is expected to reach
 18 percent of GDP in the year 2040. That is the average level of revenues,
 measured as a portion of GDP, that the federal government has collected over the
 past 50 years. So, in this scenario, there would be nothing left to pay for
 everything from defense to interest on the debt. Thus, unless those entitlement
 programs (and other spending) can be drastically curtailed or taxes raised
 significantly, large and growing deficits are a certainty.

 But the auguries aren't good. Both political parties have become advocates of
 low taxes. President Obama's State of the Union address was a veritable
 panegyric to the virtues of tax cuts (although he is willing to raise taxes a bit for
 the rich in general, and rich bankers in particular). And now that Republicans
 have become defenders of spending every last dollar that Medicare recipients are
 currently promised, the prospect of reining in entitlement programs seems more
 remote than ever.

 In a politics-as-usual scenario, with no changes in the current policy of low taxes
 and unrestrained entitlement growth, the federal debt is projected to reach 100
 percent of GDP by 2023. By 2038, it would reach 200 percent of GDP.

I'll close on this subject with some even more pessimistic words from Bill Julian:

 Add to the debt woes of European nations and US states the unfunded liabilities
 of the US government ($30 to $50 trillion, depending on who you ask) the
 bearded nationalization of the largest financial institutions in the world, Fannie
 and Freddy, and you have to ask, how could it have gotten this bad?

 . . . conditions of instability could reappear [quickly]. And this time, the crisis
 will center on government debt and the bond markets. The collectivist impulse
 spawned by Keynes as a solution to fiscal problems brought on by the bad
 behavior of the banks and the governments who cover for them will have gone as
 far as they can. There will be no one left to bail out "the system." The US
 government will be left with a nasty choice: austerity and fiscal discipline, or
 monetizing the debt [through devaluation or hyperinflation] and face a likely
 collapse of the bond market.

The bottom line appears to be that the U.S. must anticipate austerity, higher taxes, and the
sluggish growth that combination is likely to produce. Failing that, we may face
devaluation, default and other unthinkable developments. We are not exempt from the
problems besetting Greece, or the awakening regarding the notions listed on page 5.

The State of the States

Many professional investors include What I Learned This Week from 13D Research among their
highest-priority reading. Its discussions are big-picture and almost academic, but Kiril Sokoloff
seems more likely than most to cover the big market-movers of tomorrow. He discussed the
financial condition of the states in his June 24 issue, and I can't resist quoting extensively (I
could give you more, but there has to be a limit):

 Across the U.S., state governments are on the edge of fiscal calamity . . . Last
 month, a report from the U.S. Center on Budget and Policy Priorities issued
 estimates that in fiscal 2010 the U.S. states collectively posted a near $200
 billion budget shortfall, equivalent to 30% of all state budgets. As Time's David
 von Drehle recently observed: "Such persistent budget woes are unparalleled in
 the era of modern American government. You'd have to go back to the 1930s to
 find a parallel."

 After plunging in 2009, tax revenues are starting to stabilize in some places,
 but revenues are still far off pre-recession levels. Collection of sales, personal-
 income and corporate taxes - which constitute 80% of state revenue - slumped
 12% over the past two years. Meanwhile, fixed costs continue to keep states
 deep in the red.

 As would be expected, state and local governments have begun to take some
 much-needed steps - cutting costs, trimming pension eligibility, and depleting
 their rainy-day funds. In fiscal 2010, forty-five states reduced services to
 residents and over 30 states have raised taxes, in some cases significantly,
 according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Fourteen states are
 expected to have reserves of less than 1% of their annual spending by the
 end of fiscal 2010 - they are basically living hand-to-mouth. . . .

 But the states, it must be remembered, have a large number of fixed costs,
 which continue to expand. In addition to soaring pension obligations, the
 federal government has pushed a lot of its burdens onto the states, beginning
 with the sprawling mess that is Medicaid. Created by Congress, administered by
 the states, and funded by a mishmash of state, local and federal funds, the
 healthcare system for America's poor is a train wreck waiting to happen.

 Medicaid spending, which accounted for 21% of state general fund
 expenditures in 2009, rose 6.6% that year and is expected to rise 10.5% in
 fiscal 2010, according to Linda Bilmes, a professor at the Harvard Kennedy
 School. But while the number of enrollees increases, funding for the system will
 barely budge. As Arizona's Governor Jan Brewer said in her state-of-the-state

 address this year: "Government revenues have sagged to 2004 levels and some
 people say we should just adopt the 2004 budget" - easier said than done when
 your state's Medicaid rolls have grown by nearly half a million since then. . . .

 The states, like the federal government, are facing a demographic headwind
 that will continue to shrink their tax revenues and compound their growing
 social safety net obligations. As Graham-Fisher's Josh Rosner reminds us, the
 baby boomer's peak earnings potential is behind them:

 These boomers are now moving to become the largest tax on the social
 safety net. The largest generation in U.S. history will retire with less
 equity in what has historically been the largest retirement and
 intergenerational wealth transfer asset for most families - their homes.
 In many cases, these people will have no new [sic] personal savings
 when they reach the end of their working lives and will essentially
 become wards of the state. This increased burden on the U.S.
 Treasury, in a decade, is the largest unconsidered impact of the current
 crisis.

 Last year, the states' fiscal woes were partly assuaged by the federal stimulus
 package. But nearly 70% of the $787 billion of stimulus funds approved early
 last year will have been spent by September, according to the CBO. (And while
 the emergency cash infusion helped the states keep their heads above water, it
 ultimately compounded their plight, since even though the federal funds are not
 necessarily recurring, the jobs and obligations they fund are.) This year,
 however, the federal stimulus money is going to be thinned dramatically.

 The Obama administration has asked for about $50 billion for 2011, but experts
 believe it would require another $160 billion in cash just to meet demands for
 the next two years. And this assumes there is no increase in unemployment or
 decrease in tax revenues. Even though there is scant appetite among election-
 susceptible Democrats in Washington to add more zeroes to the end of the
 federal deficit, there may be no alternative. If the federal government does not
 intervene, the entire U.S. economy could be put at risk. After all, aren't
 California and Illinois, like the country's banks, "too big to fail"? (Emphasis
 in the original)

I touched on the subject of the states' fiscal condition in "Tell Me I'm Wrong" (January 22);
that and the passages above from Sokoloff's piece should suffice for now. However, I do want
to go into a bit more detail regarding one of the key contributors to Greece's troubles: pensions.

Pension promises have long been used in the U.S. as a budgetary quick fix. As in some parts of
the private sector (see auto companies and "legacy" airlines), the public sector has a history of
substituting sweetened pension benefits (and retiree medical benefits) for higher wages in the
here-and-now, a prime example of "kicking the can down the road." Employees bargained for
promises of enhanced retirement payments in exchange for agreeing to limit increases in current
compensation, but the cost of keeping those promises will be high and, as of today, is far from
fully funded.

The Pew Center on the States estimates that as of June 30, 2008, the states had set aside $1
trillion less than would be needed to pay future pensions and medical benefits. On July 6,
The New York Times reported on a study by Joshua Rauh of the Kellogg School of
Management: ". . . assuming states make contributions at recent rates and . . . earn 8 percent, 20
states will run out of cash by 2025; Illinois, the first, will run dry in 2018. . . . Illinois, once its
funds were depleted, would be forced to devote a third of its budget to retirees; Ohio fully half."

States such as California and Illinois clearly have debts that will be hard to pay and budgets that
will be hard to balance. Fractious politics, the requirement for super-majorities on tax and
budget matters, and the role (in my state) of referenda all render solutions elusive. Will there
be a bailout? This is a great question to start thinking about today (although the prevailing
ethic is to not worry about anything until doing so is absolutely unavoidable).

I have no doubt that the federal government wants to avoid a bailout at all costs, and that
the rhetoric will remain staunchly anti-rescue. But when push comes to shove, I sincerely
doubt a state will be permitted to go bankrupt. As Warren Buffett said at this year's
Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting, "I personally think it would be very hard, in the end, for
the federal government to turn away a state that is having extreme financial difficulties."
(Financial Times, May 4)

Just as the E.U. doesn't want to give deficit spending a green light, fiscally responsible states
don't want to pay debts that others created through overspending. If the federal government
were to bail out a defaulting state, what would keep any state from running deficits,
knowing they could count on others to pay off their debts? When overspending isn't
punished, what is there to discourage it? What better example is there of moral hazard?
Wouldn't it actually be irrational for a state politician to vote to deny his constituents a benefit if
he knew the tab eventually would be picked up by others?

And by the way, like Europe, the U.S. has its own differences. Certain regions will be asked to
foot the bill for others in a federal bailout. And certainly some states have been more
"expansive" than others and have run up bigger debts. All just like in Europe. In the same way
that Germans may be hesitant to bail out free-spending Greece, Texans may think twice about
bailing out California, and North Dakotans may have doubts about New York. "Red" states are
unlikely to leap to help struggling "blue" states given the Republican view that Democrats over-
expand the role of government.

 * * *

Experience shows how radically markets fluctuate between seeing the proverbial glass half full
and seeing it half empty. Rather than achieve a happy medium, sometimes the markets focus
exclusively on good news (as during the twelve months through April) and sometimes
exclusively on bad. Greece kicked off a turn to the negative in late April, which was
exacerbated by the Gulf oil spill and rising concern over the possibility of an economic double
dip. On May 8, after Greece's troubles blossomed, The New York Times quoted Bill Gross as
saying, "Up until last week there was this confidence that nothing could upset the apple cart as
long as the economy and jobs growth was positive. Now, fear is back in play."

Just a few months ago, no one seemed to have a problem with nations that ran chronic deficits
and continuously increased their debt. Then investors changed their mind - as they tend to do -
and today they take a dim view of these practices. Government solvency is considered a critical
issue. Here's how guest contributor and hedge fund analyst Andrew Marks (also my son) sums
up current sentiment:

 Sovereign debt has become like fiat currency, as it is supported only by people's
 willingness to believe in other people's willingness to refinance it. The debt of
 an issuer with no plan to repay and no underlying way to meet maturities other
 than through refinancing sounds eerily like a subprime mortgage.

Markets are safer when fear balances greed, and when worry about losing money balances
worry about missing opportunity. We don't like it when fear rears its head and stocks drop,
but certainly that creates a healthier environment in which to be a holder, and one which should
offer better buying opportunities. Over the first part of this year it was easy to say prices
had gotten ahead of fundamentals; all things being equal, that now seems less true.

The current positives for investors include moderate valuations, rising corporate earnings and
the likelihood we're already in a recovery. On the other hand, I continue to feel consumers are
too traumatized to resume spending strongly, and I see unpleasant and rarely contemplated
long-term possibilities including those discussed above. In particular, conservatism, austerity
and increased savings are good for economic units individually but bad for a stagnant overall
economy. Bottom line: anyone who invests today in a pro-risk fashion out of belief in the
recovery must be confident he'll be agile enough to take profits before the long-term
realities set in.

I've had a heck of a time pulling together all of these ideas, and I've found it even harder to
come up with anything like answers. But I hope the discussion has been helpful, and that you'll
think about the questions I've raised and encourage others to do so as well. I don't enjoy
feeling like a worrywart, but I doubt my concerns are unfounded, and I can't imagine
silence would be preferable.


Memo: Hemlines.

While the details change, the pendulum-like fluctuation of investment styles is a constant. Fear
 versus greed, pursuit of safety versus aggressiveness, stocks versus bonds, and growth versus
 value are just a few examples of the areas in which we see this take place. In this way, the
 investment world proves the wisdom of Mark Twain's observation that, "History doesn't repeat
 itself, but it does rhyme."

 The limits of the pendulum's swing are fixed, and it tends to move back and forth over the
 territory between them. This occurs because (a) people tend to take trends to extremes, (b)
 neither extreme of the pendulum's arc represents a perfect or permanent solution, and (c) there's
 no place else to go in these regards. Thus the best way to view investment trends may be
 through an analogy to hemlines: all they can do is go up and down, and so they do. The
 style mavens call for short skirts, and people fall into line, raising hemlines until they're as high
 as they can go. And then they drop (and so forth).

 The reasons behind the rise and fall of investment fashions rarely repeat exactly, in that the
 details, timing and effects vary from instance to instance. But the underlying process is a
 recurring one. For example:

 An idea is born when an undervalued asset is discovered.
 Its undervaluation attracts attention, as do pioneering investors' early gains.
 Its popularity rises, attracting more and more adherents, even as undervaluation moves to
 fully valued.
 It turns into a mania or "bubble," and price becomes immaterial.
 Eventually, the last potential buyer becomes convinced and comes on board.
 With no one else left to convert to the trend, the bubble of overvaluation is ripe for bursting.
 When followers experience the first price declines, disillusionment sets in.
 One-time devotees flee en masse, and the bubble turns into a crash.

 This cycle of discovery, mania and crash is best summed up by the most useful of all investment
 adages: "What the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end." This memo will
 be about recurring patterns, the history of stocks and bonds as I know it, and the adage's
 applicability to that history.

 A Brief History of Stocks

 A significant milestone occurred in October 2008, attracting a lot of attention. For the first time
 in almost fifty years, it was reported, the dividend yield on the Standard and Poor's 500 stock
 index was equal to the yield to maturity on the U.S. 10-year Treasury Note. People knew this
 meant stocks had cheapened, but it took an understanding of history to grasp the real significance.
 The truth is that stocks, like other investment media, tend to go in and out of style, and this
 was just one more example of the latter.

 Prior to the 1950s, common stocks were viewed as a speculative, inferior (i.e., junior) asset class.
 For that reason, stocks had to pay higher yields than bonds in order to attract buyers; of course a
 riskier asset should yield more. In fact, most states had laws restricting holdings of stocks in
 fiduciary portfolios. This attitude toward stocks largely traced from the speculative stock bubble
 in the 1920s - featuring high-margin buying, bucket shops and shoe shine boys sharing stock tips
 - which collapsed in the Crash of '29. Poor economic and market performance stretching from
 1929 to the end of World War II further contributed to the skepticism toward stocks.

 It was only after WW II that economic performance began to support optimism. Brokerage firms
 led by Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith trumpeted the merits of stocks. Equity investing
 became widespread, and "customers' men" in local brokerage offices delivered stock investing to
 a great many households: I remember my mother buying 10 shares of Columbia Gas and 15
 shares of Chock Full of Nuts around 1959.

 I also remember a brochure on "growth stock investing" that Merrill put out in the mid-1960s,
 touting the desirability of rapid earnings growth and the strength of companies like IBM, Xerox,
 Avon, Coke, Texas Instruments and Johnson & Johnson. This idea grew into "nifty-fifty"
 investing, a true mania adopted by many of the large banks, among others. Ballyhoo took over
 from logic - excitement from value-consciousness - and these growth stocks' prices reached 80
 and 90 times earnings.

 The nifty-fifty stocks were tested - and found wanting - when the tide went out in the 1970s.
 Prosperity shifted to recession. The Arab oil embargo, a period of strong cost-push, and self-
 reinforcing cost-of-living adjustments created hyperinflation to which few people saw a chance
 for an end. Those growth stock p/e ratios went from 80 or 90 to 8 or 9. And stocks, Wall Street
 and the general economy went through a truly dreary decade, culminating in a BusinessWeek
 cover story entitled "The Death of Equities," in August 1979. For evidence of the cyclicality of
 attitudes toward stocks, consider its final paragraph:

 Today, the old attitude of buying stocks as a cornerstone for one's life savings
 and retirement has simply disappeared. Says a young U.S. executive: "Have you
 been to an American stockholders meeting lately? They're all old fogies. The
 stock market is just not where the action is."

 In the investment world, lows in sentiment usually coincide with lows in price, and the late
 Seventies were no exception. Because of the dreadful environment, you could buy an existing
 company in the stock market for less than it would cost to start one. I was fortunate to become a
 portfolio manager in mid-1978, and thus to benefit from the subsequent recovery of investor
 psychology from its nadir.

 In general (albeit with some prominent exceptions), the last half of the twentieth century was
 marked by the rise of a cult of equities, and the last quarter century was probably the best ever.
 From 1979 through 1990, the S&P 500 averaged an annual return of 15.4% and showed losses in
 only two years (4.8% in 1981 and 3.1% in 1990). Economic prosperity, rising corporate profits, a
 trend among consumers toward borrowing to spend, and the subsidence of inflation and interest
 rates all made for a most hospitable environment.

 When the stock market's performance improved even further in 1991-99, with an average return
 of 20.6% and no down years, the fawning kicked up a notch. From the low of 7 reached in 1980,
 the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 eventually exceeded 33 in 1999. The market's dramatic

 performance led to steady increases in the capital allocated to equities, and eventually to the tech
 stock bubble. It culminated in books such as the fact-based Stocks for the Long Run and the more
 fanciful Dow 36,000. If you asked institutional investors what return they expected from stocks
 going forward, I think just about all would have said 11%.

 An aside: investors consistently seize upon above average returns as an encouraging sign and
 extrapolate them, and the 17.6% compound return on the S&P 500 from 1979 through 1999 was
 certainly a case in point. But rarely do they ask what gave rise to those good returns, or what it
 implies for the future. In essence, stock ownership conveys the benefits of owning a corporation,
 and stock appreciation should be powered by increases in profits. Thus long-run returns should
 reflect corporate growth. But as Warren Buffett has pointed out, ". . . people get into trouble
 when they forget that in the long run, stocks won't appreciate faster than the growth in corporate
 profits." Although that growth is the underlying source of equity profits, it is often overshadowed
 and obscured in the short run by trends in valuation. People took that 17.6% gain as an
 encouraging sign, overlooking the fact that it stemmed primarily from the rise of p/e ratios
 described above and thus was unlikely to continue unabated. Rather than healthy performance
 that could be extrapolated, this swollen return should have come as a warning that valuations
 were unsustainable and likely to regress toward the mean. But investors consistently fail to
 recognize that past above average returns don't imply future above average returns; rather
 they've probably borrowed from the future and thus imply below average returns ahead, or
 even losses. The tendency on the part of investors toward gullibility rather than skepticism is an
 important reason why styles go to extremes.

 Wharton's Professor Jeremy Siegel, the author of Stocks for the Long Run, used historical data (a)
 to demonstrate that there had never been a long period when stocks didn't outperform cash, bonds
 and inflation, and thus (b) to argue that most people of average risk tolerance should have roughly
 100% of their capital in the stock market. But Siegel, like many laymen, failed to pursue the
 most critical line of inquiry. The right question to ask in the late 1990s wasn't, "What has
 been the normal performance of stocks?" but rather "What has been the normal
 performance of stocks if purchased when the average p/e ratio is 33?"

 Many investors were seduced by the performance of stocks in the late 1990s by the promise of
 wealth and a secure retirement, and by the meshing of equity participation with the allure of the
 technology, media and telecom industries. The results are well known: the first three-year decline
 for stocks since the Great Depression; a peak-to-trough decline of 51% for the S&P 500; massive
 losses for tech investors; shrunken 401-k accounts; and general disillusionment with stocks.

 Basically, I think equity investors had their hearts broken, as happens from time to time in
 the investment world. The promise of easy money turned out to be empty - as usual - and
 investors who had adopted overblown expectations promised "never again." A good
 economy, low interest rates and resurgent general psychology brought stocks back between 2002
 and 2007, but just to their 2000 peak. Versus the 11% prospective return they were sure of in
 1999, by 2003 many investors expected only 6-7% from stocks (despite the fact that they were
 now much cheaper). With the bloom off the rose, people looked elsewhere - to private equity,
 real estate, hedge funds and mortgage backed securities, for example - for the next solution. I
 didn't hear any investors say, "We don't have enough stocks." Their glory truly had faded.

 But having recovered to their previous high, stocks were buffeted again in the credit crisis. They
 fell 58% from their 2007 peak to their 2009 trough. Stocks weren't singled out for punishment;
 non-government bonds, real estate, mortgage securities and private equity all shared the pain as
 panic and loss of confidence were everywhere.

 With the panic now gone, stocks have recovered, but only about half their 2007-09 losses. The
 S&P 500 stands at a level that was first reached in 1998, meaning over the last twelve years, the
 average stockholder's paltry return of less than a percent a year came entirely from dividends.
 People talk about the "lost decade in equities," and still no one seems to feel he owns too few
 stocks.

 A Brief History of Bonds

 The recent history of bonds requires less telling. Bonds were the bedrock of investment
 portfolios in the first half of the last century. Along with Treasurys, utilities and corporates,
 business was brisk in railroad and streetcar bonds. Graham and Dodd's classic, Security Analysis,
 devoted more than 200 pages to "fixed-value investments" including preferred stock, of which
 next to nothing is heard today.

 The story of bonds in the last sixty years is the mirror opposite of what happened to stocks. First
 bonds wilted as stocks monopolized the spotlight in the 1950s and '60s, and at the end of 1969,
 First National City Bank's weekly summary of bond data died with the heading "The Last Issue"
 boxed in black. Bonds were decimated in the high-interest-rate environment of the '70s, and
 even though interest rates declined steadily during the '80s and '90s, bonds didn't have a prayer
 of standing up to equities' dramatic gains.

 By the time the late 1990s rolled around, any investment in bonds rather than stocks felt like an
 anchor restraining performance. I chaired the investment committee of a charity and watched as a
 sister organization in another city - which had suffered for years with an 80:20 bond/stock mix -
 shifted its allocation to 0:100. I imagined a typical institutional investor saying the following:

 We have a little money in bonds. I can't tell you why. It's an historical accident.
 My predecessor created it, but his reasons are lost in the past. Now our fixed
 income allocation is under review for reduction.

 Even though interest in stocks remained low in the current decade, little money flowed to high
 grade bonds. The continued decline in bonds' popularity was fed, among other things, by the
 decision on the part of the Greenspan Fed to keep interest rates low to stimulate the economy and
 combat exogenous shocks (like the Y2K scare). With Treasurys and high grade bonds yielding 3-
 4%, they didn't do much for institutional investors trying for 8%.

 As a result of a process I consider quite standard, bond allocations reached all-time lows at
 just the time they became needed. Other than cash and gold, Treasurys were the only asset that
 performed well in 2008. In fact, they benefited from a massive flight to quality. Corporate high
 grade and high yield bonds suffered along with everything else in 2008, but less than stocks, and
 they've enjoyed a comparable recovery. Thus bonds have performed much better than stocks
 since the onset of the crisis in July 2007, as shown on the next page.

 June 30 to June 30

 Clearly, the recent performance edge of bonds over stocks has been dramatic.

 What's Going On Today?

 Now, suddenly, investors seem to have awakened to bonds' attractions. This after failing to
 do so in time for the crisis, when holding bonds would have been of great value. Is this just
 another case of investors driving while looking in the rearview mirror? And are they shifting
 from stocks to bonds at just the wrong time?

 The headlines are dramatic and the facts are clear. In just the last few weeks, we've seen
 newspaper stories like these: "Investors Fleeing Stocks with Cash Flow Lure JP Morgan"
 (Bloomberg, August 16), "Treasury Bears Cave as Bond Yields Keep Tumbling" (The Wall
 Street Journal, August 16), and "Growing Concern over Bond Bubble" (Financial Times, August
 21). Bloomberg reported as follows:

 About $33 billion flowed out of funds owning U.S. shares this year . . . About
 $185 billion was sent to bond funds through July 31, the most on record,
 according to the Investment Company Institute.

 These statistics relate to mutual funds and their retail investors. While not necessarily the same
 for institutions, they are indicative of trends in investor psychology. In other words, the
 disaffection with stocks is continuing, and the withdrawn capital and much more is flowing to
 bonds. (It must be noted, however, as Tom Petruno of the Los Angeles Times pointed out on
 August 21, that gross inflows to equity mutual funds are still very substantial - and larger than
 those into bond funds - although exceeded in this period by outflows.)

 The first question I want to tackle is "why these trends?" The answer with regard to stocks is
 simple. They were over-hyped in the 1990s; they disappointed in the 2000s; and investors are
 extrapolating the poor performance (even at lower prices) just like they previously extrapolated
 good performance (at higher prices). This tendency to expect trends to continue is typical of
 investor behavior, especially with regard to phenomena that should instead be expected to
 regress toward the mean.

 In the late 1990s, when stocks were performing so well and universally expected to far
 exceed most investors' return needs, no one saw a reason to hold fixed income instruments
 with their modest yields. Now stocks have performed poorly for a decade and expectations
 have been cut back. Equities are no longer considered the sure thing they were. The other day
 The New York Times ran an article entitled "In Striking Shift, Investors Flee Stock Market":

 Renewed economic uncertainty is testing American's generation-long love affair
 with the stock market. . . . Small investors are "losing their appetite for risk." . . .
 "Like everyone else, I lost" during the recent market declines [an individual
 investor] said. I needed to have a more conservative allocation." . . . Investors
 pulled $19.1 billion from domestic equity funds in May, the largest outflow since
 the height of the financial crisis in October 2008. (August 22, 2010)

 Turning conservative after a crisis smacks of closing the barn door after the horse has left,
 but it's a regular feature of investor psychology.

 Of course, there has to be a fundamental rationale for investor behavior, and the current low
 opinion of stocks is based on the spreading belief that the recovery will be anemic and there could
 be a double dip. Also behind it may be the expectation that tax rates on dividends and long-term
 capital gains will rise relative to the rates on ordinary income.

 And why is so much capital flowing to bonds? The analogy to hemlines serves well in this
 regard. Take a long-established style, stir in changed circumstances, and add a significant swing
 in psychology. Bonds became passé over a long period of time, and stocks caught everyone's
 attention. When these trends had gone as far as they could, and the error of the fashion
 extreme ultimately was exposed, bonds came back into style.

 Bonds used to constitute the majority of portfolios; then a 70:30 equity/bond mix became the
 norm; and then bonds went further out of style. And then, when bond allocations got as small as
 they could, the style mavens began to call for more, instead. Of course it helped that bonds
 outperformed during and after the crisis.

 So few people held bonds going into the crisis, and in such small amounts, that the attractions of
 bonds must seem like a sudden revelation: They're senior in the capitalization to equities, of
 course, so they're less subject to fundamental risk. Then there's what I call the "power of the
 coupon." In addition to redemption at maturity, most bonds provide an interest check every six
 months. Not only are these cash flows spendable and investable, but they also serve to stabilize
 bond prices, restraining volatility. Sounds like a great deal. So why, people now wonder, did we
 hold so few? Take historically small allocations, add in newly discovered merits, and you
 get a buying trend and rising prices.

 The fundamental underpinnings for the buying trend in bonds are the converse of those
 compelling equity reductions: concern about economic sluggishness, the chance for a double dip,
 and even the distant possibility of deflation. Under any of these circumstances, companies are
 likely to do poorly, so you'd rather own senior securities (debt) with the promise of positive
 returns if held to maturity, rather than junior ones (equities), to which just about anything can
 happen.

 And if inflation is declining - taking interest rates with it - you'd rather secure a fixed rate of
 return with a bond than hold a totally variable instrument like a stock. With inflation at zero or
 negative, the thinking goes, locking in today's interest rates will prove to have been a godsend.

 Finally, if we get back into another crisis, wouldn't we rather hold bonds? Look how well they
 did during the last one.

 At What Price?

 That question - at what price? - isn't just the right question to ask about bonds versus
 stocks today. It's the right question regarding every investment at every point in time.

 I try every chance I get to convince people that in investing, there's no such thing as a good
 idea . . . or a bad idea. Anything can be a good idea at one price and time, and a bad one at
 another. Here's how I've put it in the past:

 It has been demonstrated time and time again that no asset is so good that it can't
 become a bad investment if bought at too high a price. And there are few assets
 so bad that they can't be a good investment when bought cheap enough. . . No
 asset class or investment has the birthright of a high return. It's only attractive if
 it's priced right. ("The Most Important Thing," July 1, 2003)

 Investment success doesn't come primarily from "buying good things," but rather
 from "buying things well" (and the difference isn't just grammatical). ("The
 Realist's Creed," May 31, 2002)

 The thing to think about isn't whether you'd rather have junior or senior securities in a
 recession, or fixed rate securities versus variable ones in deflation. The question is which
 securities are priced right for the future possibilities: which ones are priced to give good
 returns if things work out as expected and not lose a lot if they don't? You mustn't fixate
 on a security's intrinsic merits, but rather on how it's priced relative to those merits.

 So, for example, it's not enough to say "We want fixed rate securities in deflationary times."
 You'll be glad to be holding 21⁄2% ten-year Treasurys if deflation materializes, but how will you
 feel if it doesn't? And what's the probability of each outcome?

 If bonds are ideal for deflation and stocks will bear the brunt of the associated economic
 weakness, is that all that matters? Would you rather buy overpriced bonds than underpriced
 stocks? Is there an objective standard for overpriced and underpriced? And, for example, if the
 ten-year note will pay 21⁄2% regardless of the environment, and stocks will return 15% if deflation
 is avoided and lose 10% if it's not, doesn't deflation have to have a likelihood exceeding 50% for
 bonds to be preferred? (Check the math.)

 My point here is that simplistic blanket statements are no help at all in making investment
 decisions. How have investors gotten killed in the past? By falling for statements like these:

 High-growth stocks are a good thing (1970).
 Bonds rated below triple-B aren't appropriate for investment (1977).
 No one will ever buy equities again (1979).
 There can never be too many disc-drive manufacturers (1988).
 The Internet and optical fiber will change the world (1999).
 Home prices can only go up, and there can't be a nationwide surge in mortgage defaults
 High yield bonds are unattractive given the risk of Armageddon (2008).

 Most of today's positive articles about bonds are totally devoid of discussion of prices and
 probabilities. But it's only by assessing those things that attractiveness can be determined.

 What To Do Now?

 Ever since the financial crisis started in mid-2007, I've been saying any recovery would be
 lackluster and investors shouldn't be planning on prosperity. To me that called for investing in
 solid, stable, non-cyclical companies; avoiding levered companies and strategies; emphasizing
 risk-controlled strategies and managers; and, perhaps foremost, holding more bonds and fewer
 stocks. These were general principles: my own blanket statements, if you will. But now that
 stock prices have drifted lower and bond prices have continued to surge, I find I must reconsider
 the emphasis on bonds.

 How are bonds priced today? What returns can we expect? Let's consider that 21⁄2% ten-year
 note. With regard to Treasury securities, where it still seems safe to say there's no credit risk,
 there are three possible states of nature.

 If we buy at a yield to maturity of 21⁄2% and interest rates don't change, we'll enjoy an annual
 return of 21⁄2% per year for the next ten years. (With interest rates unchanged, there'll be no
 change in price other than from accretion to par at maturity, and we'll be able to reinvest the
 interest payments at the yields available at the time of purchase, an assumption implicit in the
 yield-to-maturity calculation.)

 If interest rates fall in response to economic weakness or deflation, we're likely to see interim
 appreciation. And if we sell at the appreciated prices, our holding-period return will exceed
 the yield to maturity at which we bought. Even if we just hold, our 21⁄2% notes will be
 desirable museum pieces, as in, "Do you remember the good old days, when you could get
 21⁄2% on Treasurys?" (In truth, though, how much lower can yields go from here?).

 Finally, if the economy, inflation and interest rates surprise on the upside relative to today's
 low expectations, having locked in a yield of 21⁄2% won't turn out to have been a good thing.
 From 21⁄2%, it's clear that rates have much further to go up than down. Any substantial
 increase in bond yields would bring meaningful interim price declines. It must be borne in
 mind that holders of the bonds of creditworthy issuers don't have to worry about permanent
 capital losses (unless they're frightened into selling when things are down). A bond that's
 money-good will outlive any negative interim fluctuations, pay par at maturity and deliver the
 yield at which it was bought. So the real risk for people who invest in these bonds is that
 their returns turn out to be sub-par under the circumstances. If inflation turns out to be
 normal, investors in the 21⁄2% note may end up with no more purchasing power down the road
 than they have today - that is, a real return of zero. Thus, if there are positive surprises in the
 environment, bond holders are likely to wish they had stocks instead.

 Portfolio construction is supposed to strike an appropriate balance between safety and
 certainty on one hand and aggressiveness and gains-seeking on the other. The key question
 is whether today's bond buyers are leaning too heavily toward the former and forgetting too much
 about the latter. Are they too pessimistic and thus honoring uncertainty to excess?

 An article by Richard Thaler of the University of Chicago, in The New York Times of August 22,
 makes an important point. He wrote about CFOs, but I think it's largely the same for investors:

 . . . the confidence limits [of their forecasts] widen after bear markets, mostly
 because estimates at the lower bound become more pessimistic. This puts a new
 light on the recent comment by Ben S. Bernanke . . . that the economic outlook
 was "unusually uncertain." . . . Yes, things feel more uncertain after bad times,

 but severe market downturns tend to occur after long bull markets when we are
 feeling least uncertain.

 In other words, investors become so accustomed to good times that bad times seem unsettling in
 comparison. That could explain excessive appetites for the safety of bonds and thus why,
 according to Deutsche Bank, "the top 10 lowest-yielding U.S. corporate new issues in
 history have been sold in the last 14 months" (Bloomberg, August 16).

 And what about sellers of stocks? I'm no longer an "equity guy" by profession, and Oaktree
 manages far more bonds than stocks, so this isn't a commercial. But I feel investors may be
 overlooking some substantial merits on the part of stocks today (data from Bloomberg, August
 16, except as noted):

 Having made their organizations lean and benefited from declining floating-rate interest
 costs, cheaper labor or staff downsizing, companies are doing a good job of making money
 despite today's lackluster economic environment. "Earnings for S&P 500 companies may
 rise 36% in 2010 and 16% in 2011, the largest two-year advance since 1994-5."

 Rather than spend that money on expansion or acquisitions, most companies are piling it up.
 "The Federal Reserve reported in June that nonfinancial companies were holding cash
 totaling more than $1.8 trillion, having built up their hoards at a rate unmatched in more than
 50 years" (LA Times, August 25). This pile of cash adds greatly to companies' financial
 security and to the potential for dividend increases or stock buybacks in the future.

 Finally, those selling or shunning stocks today seem to be overlooking some very attractive
 valuation parameters.

 o Price/earnings ratios are lower than usual. "The S&P 500 trades at 14.4 times annual
 earnings, compared with an average of 16.5, according to data . . . that goes back to
 1954." Not giveaway levels, but 13% below the post-war average.

 o Annual free cash flow for American companies excluding banks is running at 6.8%
 of their market value. This "cash flow yield" is roughly capable of being compared
 against the yield on bonds. Although (unlike dividends or interest) the cash flow
 isn't necessarily received by investors as it's earned, it should contribute to stocks'
 value one way or another.

 The bottom line is that, as bond prices rise (reducing yields) and p/e ratios fall, the chances
 increase that stocks will outperform bonds. Thus the benefits high grade bond investors feel
 they're gaining through what they're buying can be undone by what they're paying. I'll say it
 another way: the attractiveness of one investment relative to another doesn't come from
 what it's called or how it's positioned in the capital structure, but largely from how it's
 priced relative to the other.

 I'm impressed today by the ability to assemble a portfolio of iconic, high quality, large-cap U.S.
 growth stocks that will provide appreciation in a strong environment, a measure of protection in a
 weak environment, and a meaningful dividend yield regardless. To me, and given my standard
 view that we don't know what the macro future holds, these stocks' potential over a range of
 possible scenarios is more attractive than bonds which will do well in periods of economic
 weakness or deflation but poorly in strength or inflation.

 Compared to stocks, I feel Treasurys and high grade bonds currently reflect all of the
 environmental factors in their favor and perhaps more and are priced rich relative to stocks. For
 them to do well from here, with yields so low, everything has to work out as the bond bulls hope.

 My friend, hedge fund manager Doug Kass, publishes a daily note to investors. (Given that I
 average a memo every couple of months, I find the very idea daunting.) I usually like what he
 writes, which is another way of saying we think a lot alike. Doug's August 18 note carried a
 catchy headline, "Setting Up For the Trade of the Decade." His nominee for that sobriquet:
 shorting the U.S. bond market.

 What about high yield bonds, one of Oaktree's flagship asset classes? They're selling at yield
 spreads over Treasurys that are well above the historic norms, and their promised yields to
 maturity (before credit losses) should help institutional investors toward their return goals. On
 the other hand, it must be said that if interest rates rise, high yield bonds will see interim
 markdowns (albeit cushioned by their modest durations and the "gravitational pull" of price
 toward par at maturity). In all, given today's yield spreads, we believe high yield bonds will
 outperform high grade bonds in most foreseeable long-term environments.

 Leveraged loans may deserve consideration as well. The yields on these loans are low in the
 absolute, like other fixed income instruments, but relatively attractive at 51⁄2-6%. The loans are
 senior-most in the capital structure, meaning they should provide some protection in a sluggish
 economy, and the fact that their interest rates float with LIBOR should insulate them against
 interest rate increases.

 Oaktree manages half a dozen large "multi-strategy fixed income" accounts, in which we are
 responsible for allocating capital to our various marketable securities strategies. Recently, in
 recognition of the developments described above, we made a modest initial shift away from high
 yield bonds and into convertibles, with their sensitivity to equity market trends. Here's what I
 wrote to our multi-strategy clients a month ago:

 Certainly by the onset of 2000, people believed too much in stocks and thought
 too little of bonds. Now, a decade later, these things are reversing. As we enjoy
 our portfolios' performance, we should be alert for a day when bonds will have
 become too popular and stocks' outcast status will have rendered them too cheap.
 We can pat ourselves on the back for being in the right asset classes today, but
 we shouldn't fail to consider what these diverging performance trends can do to
 tomorrow's returns.

 Since few investment trends continue forever, it's usually smarter to expect ultimate
 regression to the mean rather than growth to the sky. No one should view the great
 popularity of bonds relative to stocks without reservation.


Memo: Open and Shut.

Mark Twain is described as having said, "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme."
 Thanks to the tendency of investors to forget lessons and repeat behavior, it sometimes
 seems there's no longer a need for me to come up with new ideas for these memos.
 Rather, all I have to do is recycle components from previous memos, like a builder
 reusing elements from old houses. I'm willing to try an experiment along those lines for
 this memo. Here are my building blocks:

 From "First Quarter Performance," April 11, 1991:

 The mood swings of the securities markets resemble the movement of a
 pendulum. Although the midpoint of its arc best describes the location of
 the pendulum "on average," it actually spends very little of its time there.
 . . . This oscillation is one of the most dependable features of the
 investment world, and investor psychology seems to spend much more
 time at the extremes than it does at the "happy medium."

 From "The Happy Medium," July 21, 2004:

 The capital market oscillates between wide open and slammed shut. It
 creates the potential for eventual bargain investments when it provides
 capital to companies that shouldn't get it, and it turns that potential into
 reality when it pulls the rug out from under those companies by refusing
 them further financing. It always has, and it always will.

 From "You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." November 20, 2001:

 Overpermissive providers of capital frequently aid and abet financial
 bubbles. . . . In Field of Dreams, Kevin Costner was told, "if you build it,
 they will come." In the financial world, if you offer cheap money, they
 will borrow, buy and build - often without discipline, and with very
 negative consequences.

 From "Genius Isn't Enough," October 9, 1998:

 Look around the next time there's a crisis; you'll probably find a lender.

 The above citations provide the themes for this memo. I'll just update them, put them
 into the current context and discuss the ramifications for investing today. We'll see how

 it goes. If it works well this time, readers may conclude that in the future they can
 fashion their own memos from bits and pieces of my old ones.

 The Credit Cycle at Work

 Consider this: the ups and downs of economies are usually blamed for fluctuations in
 corporate profits, and fluctuations in profits for the rise and fall of securities markets.
 However, in recessions and recoveries, economic growth usually deviates from its
 trendline rate by only a few percentage points. Why, then, do corporate profits increase
 and decrease so much more? The answer lies in things like financial leverage and
 operating leverage, which magnify the impact on profits of rising and falling revenues.

 And if profits fluctuate this way - more than GDP, but still relatively moderately - why
 is it that securities markets soar and collapse so dramatically? I attribute this to
 fluctuations in psychology and, in particular, to the profound influence of psychology on
 the availability of capital.

 In short, whereas economies fluctuate a little and profits a fair bit, the credit window
 opens wide and then slams shut . . . thus the title of this memo. I believe the credit cycle
 is the most volatile of the cycles and has the greatest impact. Thus it deserves a great
 deal of attention.

 In "The Happy Medium," I discussed the workings of the credit cycle in creating market
 extremes:

 Looking for the cause of a market extreme usually requires rewinding the
 videotape of the credit cycle a few months or years. Most raging bull
 markets are abetted by an upsurge in the willingness to provide capital,
 usually imprudently. Likewise, most collapses are preceded by a
 wholesale refusal to finance certain companies, industries, or the entire
 gamut of would-be borrowers.

 Then, in "You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare." I described this expand-and-contract
 process in detail, along with its ramifications:

 The economy moves into a period of prosperity.
 Providers of capital thrive, increasing their capital base.
 Because bad news is scarce, the risks entailed in lending and investing
 seem to have shrunk.
 Risk averseness disappears.
 Financial institutions move to expand their businesses - that is, to
 provide more capital.
 They compete for share by lowering demanded returns (e.g., cutting
 interest rates), lowering credit standards, providing more capital for a
 given transaction, and easing covenants.

 When this point is reached, the up-leg described above is reversed.

 Losses cause lenders to become discouraged and shy away.
 Risk averseness rises, and with it, interest rates, credit restrictions and
 covenant requirements.
 Less capital is made available - and at the trough of the cycle, only to
 the most qualified of borrowers, if anyone.
 Companies become starved for capital. Borrowers are unable to roll
 over their debts, leading to defaults and bankruptcies.
 This process contributes to and reinforces the economic contraction.

 Of course, at the extreme the process is ready to be reversed again.
 Because the competition to make loans or investments is low, high returns
 can be demanded along with high creditworthiness. Contrarians who
 commit capital at this point have a shot at high returns, and those tempting
 potential returns begin to draw in capital. In this way, a recovery begins to
 be fueled. . . .

 Prosperity brings expanded lending, which leads to unwise lending,
 which produces large losses, which makes lenders stop lending, which
 ends prosperity, and on and on.

 The bottom line is that the willingness of potential providers of capital to make it
 available on any given day fluctuates violently, with a profound impact on the economy
 and the markets. There's no doubt that the recent credit crisis was as bad as it was
 because the credit markets froze up and capital became unavailable other than from
 governments.

 Impact of the Credit Cycle

 The section above describes how the capital cycle functions. My goal below is to
 describe its effect.

 From time to time, providers of capital simply turn the spigot on or off -
 as in so many things, to excess. There are times when anyone can get any
 amount of capital for any purpose, and times when even the most
 deserving borrowers can't access reasonable amounts for worthwhile
 projects. The behavior of the capital markets is a great indicator of where
 we stand in terms of psychology and a great contributor to the supply of
 investment bargains. ("The Happy Medium")

 An uptight capital market usually stems from, leads to or connotes things like these:

 Fear of losing money.
 Heightened risk aversion and skepticism.
 Unwillingness to lend and invest regardless of merit.
 Shortages of capital everywhere.
 Economic contraction and difficulty refinancing debt.
 Defaults, bankruptcies and restructurings.
 Low asset prices, high potential returns, low risk and excessive risk premiums.

 On the other hand, a generous capital market is usually associated with the following:

 Fear of missing out on profitable opportunities.
 Reduced risk aversion and skepticism (and, accordingly, reduced due diligence).
 Too much money chasing too few deals.
 Willingness to buy securities in increased quantity.
 Willingness to buy securities of reduced quality.
 High asset prices, low prospective returns, high risk and skimpy risk premiums.

 The point about the quality of new issue securities in a wide-open capital market deserves
 particular attention. A decrease in risk aversion and skepticism - and increased focus on
 making sure opportunities aren't missed rather than on avoiding losses - makes investors
 open to a greater quantity of issuance. The same factors make investors willing to buy
 issues of lower quality.

 When the credit cycle is in its expansion phase, the statistics on new issuance make clear
 that investors are buying new issues in greater amounts. But the acceptance of securities
 of lower quality is a bit more subtle. While there are credit ratings and covenants to look
 at, it can take effort and inference to understand the significance of these things. In
 feeding frenzies caused by excess availability of funds, recognizing and resisting this
 trend seems to be beyond the majority of market participants. This is one of the many
 reasons why the aftermath of an overly generous capital market includes losses,
 economic contraction and a subsequent unwillingness to lend.

 The bottom line of all of the above is that generous credit markets usually are
 associated with elevated asset prices and subsequent losses, while credit crunches
 produce bargain-basement prices and great profit opportunities.

 The Events of the Past Decade

 The last several years have provided a typical example of the credit cycle at work -
 typical in its pattern, that is, but unique in its extent and impact.

 The highs in risk tolerance, credulity, financial innovation and leverage seen
 between 2004 and early 2007 gave rise to a credit crunch in late 2007 and 2008 - the

 greatest of our lifetimes - and to vast capital destruction. Structured and levered
 investment vehicles melted down, bringing unprecedented losses to those who had
 provided their capital, and forcing the sale of holdings regardless of price. Financial
 institutions flirted with potential insolvency, requiring their capital to be rebuilt via
 government programs. Money market funds and commercial paper had to be buoyed as
 well. Lehman Brothers went under. General Motors and Chrysler went bankrupt and
 required bailouts, and companies such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Merrill Lynch and
 Bear Stearns had to be supported or absorbed. All of this stemmed in large part from the
 too-easy availability of capital and from market participants' irresponsible behavior in the
 middle of the decade. The result was a massive flight to quality and widespread refusal
 to take risk.

 In 2009, miraculously in my opinion, the responses of governments caused investor
 psychology to turn positive, and the pursuit of return caused risk tolerance to be
 restored. Risk capital became available again, enabling financial institutions to raise
 equity capital and highly indebted companies to access the capital markets, extending
 maturities and capturing the discounts on their debt. As a result - thanks to the rise in
 risk appetites - many markets showed their greatest gains ever.

 This year, even though economic and geopolitical fundamentals are still shaky and new
 things to worry about arise from time to time, the credit markets are generally wide open
 for companies deemed to have critical mass. In "Warning Flags" in May, I observed that
 certain types of deals could be completed that exemplified behavior in the most heated
 pre-crisis days but had become impossible in late 2007 and 2008. These included
 issuance of CCC-rated, covenant-lite and payment-in-kind bonds; dividend recap
 transactions; and the organization of structured entities for investing in debt.

 Recently there have been additions to that list:

 The issuance of 100-year bonds.
 The issuance of 50-year bonds callable in five years (if interest rates go up, the buyer
 will be stuck with a low-rate bond, but if interest rates go down, the issuer can
 quickly replace the bond with one bearing a lower rate).
 The issuance of inflation-adjusted Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) that
 will return minus 0.55% plus the rate of inflation (if there's no inflation, the return
 will be negative, and if the rate of inflation is positive, the yield on the TIPS will be
 below that rate).
 The issuance of bonds through so-called "drive-by deals." When a deal is announced
 in the afternoon and priced the next morning, investors have little time to study its
 creditworthiness and covenants.

 Each of these things is indicative of the following on the part of investors:

 rising confidence and declining risk aversion,
 emphasis on potential return rather than risk, and
 willingness to buy securities of declining quality.

 Why These Developments?

 As with any economic event, there are numerous explanations for these things. But the
 one I want to concentrate on is government stimulus.

 In the depths of the credit crisis, governments around the world took steps to deal with
 the liquidity contraction, economic slowdown and banks' depleted capital accounts.
 These included reductions of interest rates to record lows. The motivations and effects
 are many and varied.

 First, everyone knows it's the primary goal of rate cuts to stimulate economic
 activity by making it cheaper and thus more attractive for businesses to borrow money
 with which to invest in factories, capital good and inventories. Retail credit should be
 cheaper, too, encouraging consumers to borrow and buy.

 Second, providing low cost borrowings is a way to rebuild the health of financial
 institutions. If a bank can borrow $100 million from the central bank at 1% and lend it
 out at 6%, it's as though the government gave it $5 million per year (assuming the loans
 turn out to be money-good). Thus, in addition to enhancing banks' profitability and
 equity, in principle this should lead to increased lending.

 To date, the results in these areas have been mixed. Economic activity is still muted and
 lending is slow. But another by-product has become particularly pronounced:
 encouragement to take risk.

 So third, Treasury bill rates near zero - and note yields of 1 or 2 percent (depending
 on which country we're talking about) - have the effect of driving investors toward
 riskier investments. Especially when fear and risk aversion recede, returns like these on
 Treasurys become unacceptable. Thus some money that otherwise would have been
 invested in the safe part of the fixed income market is forced to more aggressive places.

 Whatever fundamental doubt - and resulting reticence - might exist is in part offset by
 the unacceptably low returns on the safest of investments. Thus, for example, people
 who wouldn't buy high yield bonds in the past at their traditional 12% yields, or at 20%
 in 2008, will buy them today at 7% primarily because they can't stomach Treasurys at
 2%. In the same way, alternative investment categories that fared poorly in the crisis can
 attract equity capital again (albeit in smaller amounts and to be paired with less leverage).

 The fourth impact is that interest rate declines cause asset appreciation. This
 restores wealth - household and otherwise - and with it the bullish feelings that give rise
 to increased willingness to spend money and bear risk.

 Fifth, quantitative easing (QE) puts cash in investors' hands in exchange for the
 securities the Fed buys. This, too, should add to investors' appetite for investing.

 However, a program such as QE that increases liquidity has additional
 consequences. For example, other countries are complaining that (a) excess capital from
 the low-rate U.S. will flood their markets, inflating asset and commodity prices, and (b)
 increasing the supply of money in the U.S. will weaken the dollar, unfairly strengthening
 the appeal of U.S. exports and reducing U.S. demand for imports.

 The Ramifications

 In 2003, my memo "What's Going On?" included a tortured metaphor called "The Cat,
 the Tree, the Carrot and the Stick." In low-return environments, I said, investors are
 forced to move further out on the risk curve because of the paltry returns available on
 safe investments, and lured to riskier investments by the higher returns promised there.
 Conscious risk bearing can be done responsibly and perhaps even profitably. But low-
 return environments often lead investors to unconsciously reach for return, with
 results that are painful. One of our greatest imperatives is to be alert to the
 emergence of such behavior.

 A final reference to past memos: you might want to look back to 2004's "Risk and Return
 Today." It describes an investment environment in which rates on short-term Treasurys,
 reduced by the Fed, had brought down returns in the safe part of the capital market. As a
 result, I said, the capital market line was "low and flat," with inflated asset prices, low
 returns, skimpy risk premiums and high risk. I went on to urge caution when investing in
 such a low-return environment. It was early, but it turned out to have been in order.

 There are differences today. Yield spreads on non-investment grade debt are above
 average. Leverage is only available in more moderate amounts. With investors
 chastened by cash squeezes in 2008, the flow of capital to private strategies is limited.
 Equity p/e ratios are below the historic average. And investors seem to be conscious of
 the economic and geopolitical uncertainties.

 But there are also direct similarities, primarily in the fact that inadequate yields on
 Treasurys are driving bond investors elsewhere to apply their rekindled risk-taking, and
 thus absolute yields are low on all fixed income instruments.

 On November 12, The New York Times reported on comments by Martin Feldstein,
 former president of the National Bureau of Economic Research and chairman of the
 Council of Economic Advisers under Ronald Reagan:

 Anticipation of QE2, he wrote in the Financial Times, caused prices of
 commodities and common stocks to rise.

 "Like all bubbles, these exaggerated increases can rapidly reverse when
 interest rates return to normal levels," he said. "The greatest danger will
 then be to leveraged investors, including individuals who bought these
 assets with borrowed money and banks that hold long-term securities.

 These risks should be clear after the recent crisis driven by the bursting of
 asset price bubbles. Although the specific asset prices that are now
 rising are different from last time, the possibility of damaging declines
 when bubbles burst is worryingly similar." (Emphasis added)

 In 2006-07, the most appreciated assets were real estate, mortgages and buyout
 companies. This year they're Treasury securities around the world, gold, commodities,
 currencies (versus the U.S. dollar), and real estate and stocks in emerging markets.
 Buyout companies could return to the list due to the combination of cheap debt, equity
 capital needing investing, and strong competition to put it to work.

 The bottom line is that for whatever the reason, some asset prices have risen again,
 risk bearing has returned, and the risky transactions of 2004-07 are once again
 doable. Thus it strikes me that it's time to dust off the ultimate piece of advice from
 Warren Buffett:

 The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater
 prudence with which we must conduct our own affairs.

 Investors who engaged in aggressive behavior just a few years ago experienced
 significant pain as a result. Perhaps the punishment was too brief, and perhaps it
 was reversed too soon. Thus some are acting aggressively once again. It's possible
 that such behavior won't be punished again the second time around, but prudent
 investors shouldn't take the risk.

 At the depths of the markets in the fourth quarter of 2008, after Lehman Brothers'
 bankruptcy filing and other events had unnerved the world, great assets were on sale at
 irrationally low prices. The result - as always in crashes - was that high prospective
 returns were available with low attendant risk. Just two ingredients were required in
 order to take advantage: capital and the nerve to invest it.

 Today some assets are fairly priced and others are high, but there are no bargains like
 those of 2008. Capital and nerve can't hold the answers in such an environment.
 We're no longer in a high-return, low-risk market, especially in light of the inability to
 know how today's many macro uncertainties will be resolved. Instead of capital and
 nerve, then, the indispensable elements are now risk control, selectivity,
 discernment, discipline and patience.


Memo: All That Glitters.

In 1952, Noah S. "Soggy" Sweat, Jr., a member of the Mississippi House of
 Representatives, was asked about his position on whiskey. Here's how he answered:

 If you mean whiskey, the devil's brew, the poison scourge, the bloody
 monster that defiles innocence, dethrones reason, destroys the home,
 creates misery and poverty, yea, literally takes the bread from the mouths
 of little children; if you mean that evil drink that topples Christian men
 and women from the pinnacles of righteous and gracious living into the
 bottomless pit of degradation, shame, despair, helplessness, and
 hopelessness, then, my friend, I am opposed to it with every fiber of my
 being.

 However, if by whiskey you mean the oil of conversation, the philosophic
 wine, the elixir of life, the ale that is consumed when good fellows get
 together, that puts a song in their hearts and the warm glow of contentment
 in their eyes; if you mean Christmas cheer, the stimulating sip that puts a
 little spring in the step of an elderly gentleman on a frosty morning; if you
 mean that drink that enables man to magnify his joy, and to forget life's
 great tragedies and heartbreaks and sorrow; if you mean that drink the sale
 of which pours into our treasuries untold millions of dollars each year, that
 provides tender care for our little crippled children, our blind, our deaf,
 our dumb, our pitifully aged and infirm, to build the finest highways,
 hospitals, universities, and community colleges in this nation, then my
 friend, I am absolutely, unequivocally in favor of it.

 This is my position, and as always, I refuse to compromise on matters of
 principle.

 Sweat's response shows, depending on how you look at it, either how views can diverge
 on a given subject or how differently a tale can be spun. Thus it serves well to introduce
 the topic of this memo: gold.

 Before the global financial crisis, most participants in the world of finance felt they
 understood how things worked, and that in addition to the underlying processes, they
 could rely on institutions and currencies.

 Then the crisis occurred and a lot changed. Things happened during the crisis that were
 described as "five-standard-deviation occurrences" (or three or eight). In other words,

 things happened that had never happened before and had been considered capable of
 happening only once in several generations or centuries. But they happened, and
 sometimes a few in a single week.

 These were negative "black swan" developments, and they had a number of
 ramifications. First, they imposed substantial losses. Second, they called into question
 the predictability and understandability of the financial world and introduced new levels
 of uncertainty. And third, they set off a search for things that would provide certainty
 and safety in the newly uncertain world. This search led many to look to gold.

 On the Merits of Gold

 I have no doubt: gold is the ideal investment. It serves as a reliable store of value,
 especially in challenging and uncertain times. It's a hedge against inflation, since its
 price rises in sympathy with the general level of prices. It exists without the involvement
 of man-made constructs such as governments. And it's desired and accepted all around
 the world (and always has been).

 The supply of gold is finite. It can't be created out of thin air. Thus it's not subject to
 dilution or debasement, as is paper currency when governments decide to print more. In
 comparison, currency can be similarly reliable only if backed by gold.

 Finally, gold is tangible, meaning you can take delivery and store it. Most other
 investment media exist only in the form of figures on a computer screen. But gold is
 something you can actually hold and know you own. Thus it's one of the few things you
 can depend on in an uncertain world. Gold is perfect.

 Except, of course, gold is nothing but a shiny metal. Since its real-world applications are
 limited to jewelry and electronics, very little of its value comes from actual usefulness.
 Further, the amount put to those uses each year is small compared to the total amount in
 existence, so its value for those purposes is at the margin and can't be of much help in
 putting a price on the world's gold reserves.

 There's little intrinsic to gold that enables it to serve as a store of value and a hedge
 against inflation. Gold serves those purposes only because people impute to it the ability
 to do so. It's self-deception, nothing but the object of mass hysteria like that exhibited in
 "The Emperor's New Clothes." Gold has no financial value other than that which
 people accord it, and thus it should have no role in a serious investment program.
 Of this I'm certain.

 A Never-Ending Argument

 The foregoing aren't my views, of course. Rather, they're my effort to summarize the
 prevailing - and obviously polar - points of view regarding gold. I think gold engenders

 attitudes that are the furthest apart of those regarding any potential investment. The
 "gold bugs" think it's ideal and dependable, and the naysayers think it's unanalyzable and
 anachronistic.

 Due to the trauma and uncertainty introduced by the financial crisis, the subject of gold
 has attracted increased attention and the debate has heated up. It has doubled in price
 over roughly the last two years. And I've been asked about gold more in those two years
 than in all the rest put together.

 I didn't think about gold very much during my first 39 years in the money management
 business. First I was an equity guy, and then I became a bond guy. I never had a client
 who held gold (as far as I knew) and no one asked for my views on it. In a world in
 which people thought they knew how things worked and everything went smoothly most
 of the time, gold was considered largely irrelevant.

 For the last few years, I've advised a Swiss charitable foundation that, as is customary in
 its home country, holds substantial amounts of precious metals. Thus I've had to think
 about gold - which I never had to do before - and come to a conclusion.

 My view is simple and starts with the observation that gold is a lot like religion. No
 one can prove that God exists . . . or that God doesn't exist. The believer can't convince
 the atheist, and the atheist can't convince the believer. It's incredibly simple: either you
 believe in God or you don't. Well, that's exactly the way I think it is with gold.
 Either you're a believer or you're not.

 My View

 In the past, the only thing I considered certain about gold was that I didn't have to
 consider it. But in the last few years, I did think (and write) on a subject very germane to
 gold: the valuation of non-income-producing assets.

 Show me a company, security or property that produces a stream of cash, and I think I
 can value it reasonably accurately. P/E ratios, yields and capitalization rates give us a
 framework for valuing these things, and by comparing them to prevailing interest rates, to
 historic valuation parameters and to each other, we can assess whether an asset is dear or
 cheap.

 But there's no analytical way, in my opinion, to value an asset that doesn't produce
 cash flow . . . and especially one that doesn't at least have the prospect of doing so.
 (What I mean by the latter is that it's more challenging to value an empty building than a
 rented one; or an empty lot compared to one with an office building on it; or a young
 company relative to an established, profitable one. But at least you can attempt to value
 the former asset in each case on the basis of its potential to produce cash flow.) How do
 you put a value on an asset that will never throw off cash?

 Take oil, for example. As I wrote in "There They Go Again" (May 6, 2005), you can say
 the supply of oil is finite; that we're using it up faster than we're finding it; and that much
 of it is in the hands of nations we can't depend on. But what does that make it worth?
 You could have said those things in December 2008, when oil was $35 a barrel, and if
 you'd bought you'd be up 150% today. But they were equally true in July 2007, when oil
 was at $147, and if you bought you would have lost three-quarters of your money in six
 months. Qualitative statements like those simply cannot be converted into a price.

 And how do you value a home? The appraisals that were relied on by mortgage lenders
 in 2002-07 obviously did more harm than good. All the appraisers did is compare each
 home to the last similar one that sold, and their work-product literally turned out not to be
 worth the paper it was printed on. You might value a home based on what it could be
 rented for, but today's vacancies show that you can find tenants for some houses but not
 all of them. No, the value of a home at a given point in time ultimately is just what a
 buyer will pay for it.

 In fact, that's true of all non-income-producing assets: they're only worth what
 buyers will pay for them. You might say that about income-producing assets as well,
 given how their prices fluctuate, but that's completely true only in the short run and
 mostly when markets function poorly. If assets produce cash flow, that gives them value,
 and it's reasonable to believe that eventually their prices will move in the direction of that
 value. They aren't required to do so in any particular time frame, but that expectation
 provides the most solid basis there is for investing. Everything else is mere conjecture
 by comparison, and that goes for gold.

 At What Price?

 In "Hemlines" in September, I said investors were pursuing safety - simplistically, as
 they usually do the flavor of the day - but ignoring the price they were paying for it. I
 titled that section "At What Price?"

 I'm reusing that heading here, because that's really the key question in investing. We all
 would prefer to have growth, quality, income and safety in our investments. But how
 much will we pay for them? I've said it many times: no asset can be considered a
 good idea (or a bad idea) without reference to its price. How can we evaluate whether
 the price of gold is right?

 As with oil, you can list gold's attractions as enumerated on page two. But how do
 you turn them into a price? And don't you have to be able to turn them into a price
 in order to invest intelligently? Consider this conversation:

 Howard: How do you feel about gold here at $1,400 an ounce?

 Gold bug: Great. I'm sure it will hold its value from here and keep up with inflation.

 Howard: Would you be equally sure if it were $2,000?

 Gold bug: A little less, but yes.

 Howard: At $5,000?

 Gold bug: That's a tough one.

 Howard: And at $10,000?

 Gold bug: No; there it would be ahead of itself.

 Howard: So the price of gold matters?

 Gold bug: Sure.

 Howard: Then how can you be sure it's fairly priced at $1,400?

 Gold bug: Hmm . . . . .

 The point is, in investing, price has to matter. Nothing can be a good buy solely on
 the basis of its attributes alone, without considering the value they give rise to and
 the relationship of price to that value. And there's no quantifiable value against
 which to compare price in the case of gold. There; that's it. Either you agree with
 those statements or you don't.

 The gold bug's usual recourse to the difficulty in pricing gold is to point to a past price
 for the metal and how little it has appreciated since then. For example, gold hit a high of
 $850 in 1980 and has gained only 2% per year since then. The Leuthold Group is often
 quoted (e.g., Reuters, November 29) as observing that it would have to be at $2,400 today
 to merely equal the 1980 price in inflation-adjusted terms.

 But those making a claim for gold's cheapness on the basis of comparisons against
 historic prices typically point to hand-selected observations, as in Leuthold's case. What
 about the fact that gold was $250 in mid-1999 (Financial Times, November 13), meaning
 it's been up 16% a year for the last decade-plus? And even if the snail-like appreciation
 from $850 in 1980 seems persuasive, how do we know gold was priced reasonably in
 1980, and thus that the fact that it's low relative to 1980 makes it reasonable today? If
 gold was overpriced in the past, then even having failed to show much appreciation in the
 interim, it could still be overpriced today.

 In Gold We Trust

 In the 1970s I came across a book called Money Is Love by Richard Condon. I bought it
 because I had enjoyed The Manchurian Candidate, a 1962 movie based on another

 Condon book. All I remember about Money Is Love is that it was set in a period when
 people were crazy about collectable plates and amassed them as a store of value. One
 person had so many that their weight made his apartment collapse into the one beneath it.

 In the book, collectable plates had value for the simple reason that people felt they did.
 That sounds silly. But is gold any different? Are there better reasons for it to have
 value?

 My point here is the one I've held longest on this topic: that gold works as a store of
 value solely because people agree it will. For years I've felt that there's nothing special
 about gold that makes it right for this role. It just happens to be the metal people began to
 lust after a few millennia ago. It could have been iron, but iron is too common and thus
 not special enough: it doesn't shine, and it rusts. It could have been platinum, but people
 couldn't find it, or enough of it for it to be popular. Perhaps the fact that gold got the job
 is just a coincidence.

 But what about the other hand? (For thoughtful people, I think there's always another
 hand.) Let's say we disrespect gold given that it has value only because people agree
 it does. What about the U.S. dollar? Why do we accord the dollar value, or any other
 paper currency for that matter? It has value because the government says it does, and we
 go along. Sound familiar?

 Forty years ago, you could turn in paper money and get an ounce of gold for each $35.
 Then President Nixon ended the convertibility of gold in 1971 and that was no longer
 possible. Now there's nothing behind the dollar but people's belief in it.

 As an aside, when I was working on Wall Street for the first time in the summer of 1967,
 the government announced that it was going to terminate the convertibility of banknotes
 labeled "silver certificates." So I found a dozen or so in my wallet and took them to the
 Federal Assay Office on a nearby street called Old Slip. The clerk counted them, put the
 equivalent weights on one side of a huge balance scale, poured granulated silver onto the
 other side from a bag, and handed the silver to me in an envelope. I'm very glad that I
 still have it today, plus a few silver certificates that I didn't convert . . . plus the rest of
 my memories of those early days.

 Wikipedia defines "fiat currency" as "state-issued money which is neither legally
 convertible to any other thing, nor fixed in value in terms of any objective standard."
 Today the non-convertible dollar (like most other currencies) is a fiat currency.
 Wikipedia goes on to say fiat currencies "lack intrinsic value."

 So if I complain that gold lacks intrinsic value, perhaps my wariness should also
 make me question dollars (and euros, pound sterling and yen). If gold has the
 limitations I describe in this regard, what can we say about currencies? (Bruce
 Karsh goes on to raise a further conundrum: we may prefer income-producing assets,
 with their intrinsic value, to fiat currency. But the income they produce is reckoned in
 currency, and thus their value is as well. So, is the value of those assets any more "real"

 than currency? What does have real value? Maybe just things with actual usefulness and
 not just monetary value, like farms. It certainly does get complicated.)

 We can talk about the fact that gold's value isn't intrinsic or quantifiable. But the
 question really comes down to whether people's faith in gold will increase or erode.
 Relevant here is a profound observation regarding markets from John Maynard Keynes.

 In Keynes's time, a London newspaper ran photos of a large number of young women,
 with a prize going to the reader whose list of the five prettiest most closely paralleled the
 votes of all readers. The winning strategy wouldn't be to try to pick the prettiest
 contestants, but rather the ones most voters will say are the prettiest. In other words,
 one's contest submission shouldn't be based on intrinsic merit, but on guesses regarding
 the other participants' views of intrinsic merit. The same is true for investments,
 including gold. Thus it's not whether gold has value, but whether people will impute
 value to it.

 But it goes further. Especially in the short run, the superior investor may not be the one
 who's right about the merit of something, or even the one who's right about the
 consensus view of merit. Rather, the superior investor may be the one who's right about
 the judgments other people will make about the consensus view of merit.

 It is not a case of choosing those [faces] that, to the best of one's
 judgment, are really the prettiest, nor even those that average opinion
 genuinely thinks the prettiest. We have reached the third degree where we
 devote our intelligences to anticipating what average opinion expects the
 average opinion to be. And there are some, I believe, who practice the
 fourth, fifth and higher degrees. (General Theory of Employment Interest
 and Money, 1936).

 Will people continue to impute value to gold? Or will they bet that others will
 continue to impute value to gold? Those are the key questions. It's hard to predict
 change in these things, but it's the change that makes and eliminates fortunes.

 Gold in Times of Uncertainty

 In the last six weeks, in addition to North America, I have visited with clients and
 contacts in Europe, Asia, Australia and South America. Perhaps the greatest common
 thread I detected was a sense that the world is more uncertain, and the range of
 possible outcomes wider, than ever before. People who before the crisis felt they
 understood how economies and governments work - and thus what could be expected in
 the future - now feel very differently.

 Today we're faced with uncertainty regarding a vast list of issues including:

 the outlook for economic growth,

 the ramifications of high debt levels and the necessary austerity measures,
 the economic future of the developed world,
 the impact of China and other emerging nations,
 the likelihood of deflation versus hyperinflation, and
 the soundness of currencies and sovereign debt.

 Thus it shouldn't come as a surprise that people are groping for something they can
 depend on. Since gold acts as a barometer of expectations regarding inflation and
 concern about economies and currencies, its popularity has risen as sentiment
 regarding these things has declined.

 Being away from home tends to alter one's perspective. While traveling, I was shocked
 to hear someone (okay, a gold producer possibly "talking his book") describe the U.S. as
 having a corrupt political system in the grip of special interests and being committed to
 the debasement of the dollar. While I know the stimulative actions being undertaken may
 well cause the dollar to weaken, I like to think the part about corruption isn't true.

 But I have to admit that I'm not all that happy with what's going on in the U.S., and
 especially in Washington, D.C. (see "What Worries Me," August 2008 and "I'd Rather
 Be Wrong," March 2010). While other nations are enacting austerity measures to trim
 their deficits and debt, I don't see much coming from Washington. So if not corrupt, then
 perhaps just weak-kneed.

 The recent compromise tax "solution" is a good example (merits of the provisions
 aside): "I'll agree to continue the tax cuts and reduce estate tax rates for the wealthy
 (exacerbating the deficit) if you'll vote to extend unemployment benefits, cut payroll
 taxes and increase tax credits (exacerbating the deficit)." There's something for
 everyone in this bill, with its estimated cost of $858 billion over ten years. The only
 element missing from both sides' agendas is fiscal discipline.

 And what about the vote on the proposals from the President's commission on the
 deficit? While the appointed members of the commission generally backed them,
 they failed to get the needed supermajority because six of the ten elected officials
 who care about reelection voted no. These are tough issues, and by definition every
 possible solution will raise taxes or reduce government services. The fact is that most
 elected legislators seem unable to take any actions that might cost them votes.

 Questions about the dollar are being raised worldwide. Thus an interesting result of
 being abroad is that what looks like an increase in the dollar price of gold becomes
 easier to view as a decrease in the amount of gold a dollar will buy. So perhaps we
 should think about the dollar's weakness rather than gold's strength. Here's a post
 from a Reuters blogger:

 If you look at the price of gold in a currency other than U.S. dollars, for
 instance Australian dollars, it hasn't gone up at all over the last few years.
 Gold isn't booming at the moment. The U.S. dollar is crashing. You

 think [gold is] worth a lot of U.S. dollars now? Just wait until QE4 or

 This may or may not be from a qualified observer, but it's indicative of current sentiment.
 It's interesting in this connection that The Wall Street Journal reported as follows on
 December 3:

 Data cited Thursday by China's state-run Xinhua news agency showed
 that China imported 209.7 metric tons of gold in the first 10 months of the
 year, a fivefold increase compared with the same period last year.

 That surpassed purchases made by ETFs and surprised analysts, who until
 now had no clear insight into the size of China's buying. . . .

 "Everybody in the gold market knew there was a surge in investment
 demand, but they didn't know it was China," said Jeff Christian, managing
 director at CPM Group. . . .

 [This news] comes as the government loosens its restrictions on gold
 purchases by financial institutions and individual investors.

 Money has to go someplace, and in these uncertain times, gold seems to be a destination
 of choice. Further, some of the objections to gold have eased:

 It used to be difficult and costly to transact in, especially in small amounts.
 But the creation of easily tradable ETFs has eased that concern.
 In the past, people would complain about the fact that gold doesn't throw off
 current income. But with interest rates ultra-low thanks to central banks, not
 much else does, either.

 Removing impediments like these has the effect of increasing demand relative to
 supply. The short-run impact on price is clear.

 The Usefulness of Gold as a Reserve Currency

 In many ways, the rise in the popularity of gold may be largely the result of a
 process of elimination. Here's a helpful analysis from "Gold's Allure Grows Amid
 Instability," by James Saft writing in the International Herald Tribune (November 10):

 Real assets are the place to be when the solvency of the banking system is
 threatened and the authorities refuse to deal directly with it.

 With trillions in bank collateral that is worth less than its stated value on
 paper and with a U.S. economy mired in a balance sheet recession, the
 temptation to take care of these issues by creating more backed-by-nothing

 money is too great. This is exactly what the Federal Reserve is doing in
 its latest $600 billion round of quantitative easing.

 This in turn is an invitation to the rest of the world to print money right
 back. There is no brake on this system other than the ability of nations to
 cooperate, and right now cooperation is not in everyone's individual
 interest. . . .

 You could argue that where we are now was a likely outcome of the
 current system. A global reserve currency in a fiat system creates
 tremendous incentives to take on too much debt.

 In other words, when (a) your income is inadequate to cover your spending, (b) you
 can borrow from abroad to cover the shortfall, (c) you can print the world's reserve
 currency with which to repay debt and (d) that currency isn't required to be backed
 by something tangible such as gold, printing money seems like the easy way out. But
 as the world is learning about many things, that won't work without limitation.

 The Financial Times reported as follows on November 13:

 Some policymakers think it is dangerous to rely on a single reserve
 currency, the dollar, from an economy that needs to borrow heavily from
 abroad. Amid Friday's failure of the Group of 20 industrial and emerging
 nations to reach any meaningful accord on global imbalances, France has
 promised as part of its G20 presidency next year to start a debate about the
 world's future monetary arrangements.

 The world needs a reserve currency (or more than one). What candidates are there? The
 U.S. dollar, euro, sterling, yen, renminbi and gold.

 The dollar has problems these days, and the world's opinion of it as a reserve currency is
 on the decline. If it hasn't fallen much in recent years relative to the euro and sterling -
 and in fact it's up strongly since late 2007 - that's mainly because the other two have
 bigger problems. Only the yen has strengthened relative to the dollar, due to belief in
 Japan's conservatism and solidity (although its massive national debt suggests
 otherwise).

 Here's how World Bank president Robert Zoellick put it a month ago in arguing for a
 limited role for gold in the world monetary system:

 Gold has become a reference point because holders of money see weak or
 uncertain growth prospects in all currencies other than the renminbi, and
 the renminbi is not free for exchange.

 That leads by default to gold. It's unlikely to take over from the others, but it may see
 further increases in demand, especially if nations conclude that the gold component of

 their reserves is too small relative to currency holdings. On the other hand, the role for
 gold appears likely to be limited because the small amount of gold that trades - and the
 swings in sentiment (and thus supply and demand) - render it awfully volatile for a
 serious component of the world monetary system. Further, the finiteness of the gold
 supply would limit potential economic growth in a gold-backed monetary system.

 Most things in the international arena seem to argue against the dollar, and that can be
 viewed as implicitly arguing for an increased role for gold relative to the dollar. But
 remember that because it can't be assessed quantitatively, no one can say
 definitively that the current price for gold doesn't already recognize and reflect all
 of the dollar's problems (and all of gold's merits).

 The Bottom Line

 It was about two years ago that I first noted the similarity between gold and religion.
 Before that, I had always been a non-believer in gold (not strongly anti, just indifferent).
 But I concluded at the time - just as any wary agnostic might about God - that whereas I
 didn't believe in gold, I couldn't be 100% certain that was the right position. (It's like
 someone who considers himself non-superstitious but still favors lucky numbers and
 daily rituals "just in case.") So I stopped arguing against gold with any vehemence.

 More importantly, I also concluded that since gold has "worked" for hundreds of years, it
 probably will keep on doing so. It might not do so forever, but what's the probability this
 will be the year it stops? So I wouldn't bet against it, and I might recommend a position
 "just in case." Not because I view gold affirmatively as a moneymaker, but rather as a
 useful contributor to safety through diversification. Surely the uncertain world situation
 seems to call for all the protection against the unknown that we can amass.

 Still, the other hand brings me back to price. Yes, gold is probably more likely to
 continue serving as a store of value than to quit. And yes, maybe one should have a
 position. But is this the right price at which to start . . . ?