Memo: On Regulation.

I've been asked why there weren't any memos during the twelve weeks between September 9
and December 1. Lack of ideas? Writer's block? Carpal tunnel syndrome? CIA posting? The
answer is "none of the above." I was putting the finishing touches on a book, The Most
Important Thing: Uncommon Sense for the Thoughtful Investor. It pulls together all of the
strands of my philosophy into what might be thought of as a super-memo. It will be published in
late April and I hope you'll let me know what you think.

 * * *

In the 31⁄2 years since the financial crisis surfaced in July 2007, there has been extensive
discussion of the part deregulation played in creating it, as well as the need for increased
regulation to prevent the next one. The release last month of the report of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission reawakened the debate. Thus I'm often asked nowadays how I feel about
regulation and what I think the future holds in that regard.

The Swing of the Regulatory Pendulum

I've written before that attitudes toward regulation follow the same pendulum-like swing
as most other aspects of market behavior. They oscillate not only in response to events in the
economic environment, but also because neither total regulation nor total deregulation produces
an entirely satisfactory answer. As in so many things, there's no perfect solution.

A great source on the subject is Wall Street Under Oath, a 1939 book on the causes of the Great
Crash of 1929 written by Ferdinand Pecora, who was counsel to the Senate committee
investigating the crash and later a New York State judge. I first read it about twenty years ago,
and I brought it out of storage in 2007. It is a typical polemic, assigning blame and touting
regulation pursuant to what I assume were the author's philosophical/political biases (see page

Pecora describes a Wall Street that, up to and including the 1920s, was like the Wild West.
Bankers and brokers were out to make money for themselves; their behavior was largely
unregulated; and conflicts between their interests and those of their clients were widespread and
disregarded. In particular, according to Pecora, disclosure standards were non-existent.

These facts combined with other causes to produce a market crash of epic proportions;
widespread losses; a drying up of capital; deflation; and a massive depression with a resulting
increase in unemployment to 25%. Unsurprisingly, fingers were pointed at the prior
administration and political power shifted to believers in an activist role for government. The
most lasting result was the enactment of laws that governed the financial system for decades and
in many cases still do: the Securities Act, the Securities and Exchange Act, and the Glass-
Steagall Act. Thus the 1930s saw a massive swing of the pendulum in favor of regulation.

The next several decades on Wall Street were - perhaps thanks to the impact of those laws - a
relatively placid period. This led to a view that, with rare exceptions, market participants are
well-behaved by nature. Further, steady growth with only moderate dips caused a perception of
an inherently benign and productive economy that could achieve even more if only the
regulatory shackles were loosened. After President Carter deregulated the transportation
industry in the late 1970s, the door was open for much of the regulatory apparatus built in the
early part of the century to be relaxed. Ronald Reagan, whose famously free-market views
coincided with a period of peace and prosperity, led the deregulatory charge. We saw a similar
turn in Britain under the leadership of Margaret Thatcher; the collapse of the USSR and a
resounding victory for capitalism; and the ascendance of free market adherents Alan Greenspan
and George W. Bush.

With the economy and financial system generating prosperity, people wanted more of the same.
And with manufacturing in decline, we relied heavily on the financial sector for an increased
contribution to GDP, job creation and standards of living. The prevailing view was that the less
regulation we had, the more productive business and finance could be. And what was there to be
feared from an unregulated economy, anyway? The result in the past decade, according to a
great newspaper quote that sadly I can't locate, was "the kind of regulation you get from an
administration that doesn't believe in regulation."

Thus, coming full circle from the 1930s, starting in 1999 we saw revocation of Glass-Steagall;
elimination of the up-tick rule limiting short sales to instances when stock prices were rising; a
pivotal decision to exempt derivatives from regulation; increased permitted leverage at
investment banks; and starvation of regulatory agency budgets. These developments were
followed by the global financial crisis of 2007-08. Coincidence or causality?

Free Markets Are Dangerous - Regulation is Essential

The free-market, capitalist system runs on self interest and the desire for profit. We need
regulation to ensure those things are kept within reasonable limits. Thus the goals of
financial regulation are roughly as follows:

 to limit risk, especially risk to the overall financial system,
 to restrict the concentration of economic power,
 to protect customers, especially "the little guy,"
 to prevent error, fraud, misrepresentation and theft, and
 to democratize finance and make it a tool of social policy.

If ethics, self-regulation, personal responsibility, respect for risk and a sense of limits could be
counted on, we wouldn't need much in the way of regulation. But, sadly, they can't.

Since the profit motive can lead financial institutions to aggressive risk taking, error and even
misdeeds, regulation is counted on to prevent these things. There's also concern that individuals'
self-interest might drive them to actions that collectively might injure their companies and
society.

Free markets do a great job of allocating economic resources - especially on average over the
long run - but the interim fluctuations produced by miscalculation can be intolerable and have to
be modulated. This makes regulation indispensable. Bottom line: the financial system can't
be entrusted to untrammeled free markets.

Regulation is Imperfect and Harmful - Free Markets Do It Best

On the other hand, regulation is too imperfect to be relied on. (Thanks to "Soggy" Sweat for
this dialectical approach - see "All that Glitters," December 17, 2010.) It's easy to write hard-
and-fast rules, but rules sometimes impose undue costs or restrict activity in undesirable ways.
And their specificity often makes them capable of being circumvented. Because financial
institutions are intent on innovation, rules rarely keep pace and regulators usually find
themselves playing catch-up. Rule-writing is reactive: rules are written in response to the last
problem, not to foresee and prevent the next one, which invariably is different. In addition,
regulators lack the financial motivation that drives those who can profit from getting around
regulations and exploiting loopholes.

Since rules become outdated and circumvented, it might be preferable to regulate through
principles. In other words, rather than numerical limits and defined borders, regulations might
be written in general terms to produce adherence to ideals and policy goals. But regulating this
way requires that judgments be made, and regulators are rarely accorded the license required for
judgment-making. Imagine the second-guessing, legal appeals and phone calls to congressmen
that would follow an individual regulator's decision that a financial institution's actions have
violated vague principles . . . especially during a halcyon period when the warned-of
consequences are slow in coming.

Principle-based regulation requires not only flexibility that is hard to build into and nurture in
bureaucracies, but also significant business acumen, perspicacity and foresight. The evidence is
prima facie: very few people saw the risk posed by sub-prime mortgages and structured
mortgage products, and certainly not the regulators. And no one I know of - regulator or
otherwise - foresaw the effect these things would have on banks, money market funds and the
commercial paper market.

Why didn't regulators say a word about rating agencies' dispensing many thousands of triple-A
ratings to structured mortgage vehicles? Why were the highly regulated banks ground zero for
the consequences of the financial crisis, while unregulated hedge funds were relatively
unscathed? I just can't imagine that regulators will ever have the ability to fully anticipate the
consequences of changes in the fast-developing financial system, or to foresee the development

of new problems for which rules and responses have yet to be drawn up. Here's how Peter
Sands, chief executive of Standard Chartered, was quoted in the Financial Times of January 27:
"It is not clear why some regulators who were there before the crisis should believe they now
have all the right solutions."

What regulator would have been able to make a difference in protecting our financial institutions
(and the overall economy) from the developments of 2004-07? And given how valuable his
skills would be in the private sector, how long would he have remained a regulator? No, it just
doesn't make sense to expect government employees to safeguard the financial system. The
conclusion is inescapable: responsibility for the safety of the financial system can't be
delegated to regulators.

The Origin of Attitudes

In December I wrote of gold that it's like religion: either you believe in it or you don't. I think
something very similar can be said about regulation of business and the economy.

Liberals who champion an expanded role for government tend to be pro-regulation, while
conservatives favoring laissez-faire policies and limitations on government will argue against it
with vehemence. Democrats generally like an activist government: that's what makes them
Democrats. Republicans don't.

Those partaking in the benefits of economic growth tend to favor free-markets and oppose
further regulation, since they're happy with things the way they are. The reverse is true for those
who are failing to participate and those working in the public sector . . . although there are
millions of exceptions on both sides. Businesspeople who trust the economy to perform for them
generally oppose regulation, while members of labor want it to prevent their being taken
advantage of by management and the owners of capital.

I think our attitudes in this regard are highly correlated with those of our parents and largely a
function of the time and place we grew up in. They can be altered through exposure to opposing
points of view, but I think most people's attitudes toward regulation stem far more from
upbringing and circumstances than from analytical and intellectual processes. Attitudes toward
regulation, like politics, are largely hereditary and change slowly if at all.

Reconciling the Two Positions

It's my belief that because both free markets and regulation are imperfect - and because of
the strength of people's political and philosophical biases - we will never settle
permanently on either a completely free market or a thoroughly regulated system. Any
position will prove merely temporary, and the pendulum will continue to swing toward one end
of the spectrum and then back toward the other.

 Scandals and crashes will cause a cry for regulation.
 Regulation will curb the excesses and punish the wrongdoers, discouraging repetition.

 The environment will calm, and economic progress will become the rule.
 Memory of the events behind the demand for regulation will fade.
 Free-marketeers will gain sway, and they'll argue that we could do even better if the
 system were deregulated.
 Regulation will be eased.
 Risk-taking and misdeeds will rise.
 Scandals and crashes will occur anew.
 Pro-regulation forces will regain influence, and free-marketeers will be in the doghouse.
 And the pendulum will swing back toward regulation.

There will never be total, lasting agreement on either complete regulation or totally free markets.
Importantly, however, it might well be the case that compromise between the two has the
most dangerous consequences.

 In the decade leading up to the crisis, politics favored home ownership and liberal
 mortgage availability. These forces, combined with unregulated mortgage securities
 markets, gave rise to excessive lending, exaggerated demand for mortgage securities
 (given the illusion of safety), and thus artificially low mortgage rates and loose terms.

 Which bailout recipients remain the biggest sinkholes, without any real chance of
 repaying the government's investment? The answer is Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
 government-created mortgage agencies: supposedly private enterprises whose operations
 were distorted by a tacit federal guarantee. They engaged in uneconomic behavior,
 advancing the policy goal of making home ownership available to people who couldn't
 afford it, and accepting vast risk on the basis of inadequate capital because they (and their
 lenders) had no fear of loss.

 Legislators turned regulation over to the private sector by putting credit rating agencies in
 charge of financial institutions' investing standards, giving commercial organizations
 excessive imprimatur. Financial temptation pressured them to drop their standards, and
 when they succumbed, the previously sacrosanct triple-A rating became a meaningless
 label.

 Having witnessed the rescue of the banks and the financial system, we now have a system
 where free-market rewards will continue to motivate risk taking and no one believes the
 ultimate price - meltdown - will be demanded of too-big-to-fail institutions that take it
 too far. A free-market mechanism undercut by moral hazard may perform adequately
 95% of the time, but it will pose terrible risks in the remainder.

The real bottom line is that since both free markets and regulation are imperfect, our
financial systems will continue to be imperfect. They will work well for us most of the time,
although not perfectly, and they will be subject to bubbles and crises every few decades
(hopefully not more often).

The Recent Experience

Think about the last few years: the depth of the financial crisis, the pain it caused, the blunders
(or worse) that were behind the crisis, the financial sector bailouts it necessitated, and the
acrimony they elicited from a Main Street feeling left to fend for itself. Then add in a White
House and Congress controlled by Democrats, with their leaning toward government
involvement in the economy. Certainly this was a formula for a powerful upswing in regulation.

In this context, I'm surprised that we haven't seen much more government activism. The
new financial regulations are mild and constrained, in my opinion. Increases in financial
institution capital requirements and controls over executive compensation have generally been
more moderate in the U.S. than in Europe. No one has gone to jail (or even been subjected to
heavy fines) as in the Enron/Adelphia era. And there have been no punitive increases in taxes on
"the rich."

And yet there have been enough steps toward regulation for their limitations to be manifest. One
of the primary components of last year's new financial reform law was the so-called Volcker
Rule, under which banks can no longer risk their capital on trading and investing for their own
account. The bankers I meet with rail against the extent to which this will interfere with their
ability to serve their customers and lay off risk. They further complain that actions inherent in
market-making can be hard to distinguish from Volcker Rule violations. Where do positions
held for trading and hedging stop and prop trading start? Think about Goldman Sachs's bets
against subprime mortgages:

 Did they hedge Goldman's long positions in mortgages?
 Did they lessen the risk in Goldman's overall portfolio?
 Were they bets against Goldman's clients?
 Or did they enable Goldman to take positions that served its clients and otherwise engage
 in client facilitation?

I'd guess the answer is "all of the above." Clearly, however, a market maker can do far more to
provide liquidity if it is allowed to hedge through offsetting positions.

Mortgage shorts also shored up Goldman's finances and made it one of the least needy financial
institutions. Which would we like to have more of, Goldman Sachs or Lehman Brothers, which
plunged into mortgages and derivatives without significant risk control and consequently went
bankrupt? And yet Goldman's actions have been vilified and proprietary investing has been
outlawed.

On February 6, a front-page New York Times story indicated how difficult it is to rein in free-
market forces and self-interest. Although Washington pushed financial institutions to
compensate executives through stock grants in order to align interests with shareholders (and
mandated it at the very top), the article described non-mandated employees' success in hedging
their shareholdings and thus sidestepping exposure to the risks affecting their companies.

 "Wall Street is saying it is reforming itself by granting stock to executives and
 exposing them to the long-term risk of that investment," said Lynn E. Turner, a
 former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Hedging
 the risk can substantially undo that reform. . . ."

 More broadly, critics say, the practice of hedging represents another end run
 around financial reform.

 For example, new rules that cracked down on debit card fees have led several big
 banks to eliminate free checking. Firms also plan to make up missing revenue by
 adapting their businesses to the tougher new regulations on derivatives and
 trading with the banks' own capital.

The Wall Street Journal of February 18 provided another example:

 In November, Barclays PLC quietly changed the legal classification of the U.K.
 bank's main subsidiary in the U.S. so that the unit would no longer be subject to
 federal bank capital requirements. . . .

 The maneuver allows them to escape a provision of the financial-overhaul law
 that forces the pumping of billions of dollars of new capital into the U.S. entities,
 known as bank-holding companies.

 "It's just not worth it to have all that capital trapped" in the holding company, said
 a New York lawyer who is advising banks on how to restructure.

 The moves are the latest example of how banks are scrambling to cushion the
 impact of new laws and rules around the world.

The article went on to illustrate how a patchwork system can be evaded through
regulator-shopping. By deregistering its subsidiary as a bank-holding company, Barclays
escaped regulation by the Federal Reserve Bank, which would insist on greater capital.
Instead its units now fall under the FDIC and the SEC, which will impose no such
requirement.

The bottom line as far as I'm concerned is that you can enact a law or rule and tell
businesspeople precisely what to do, but you can't make the economy or companies comply
with policies and social aims. Regulations are limited in their scope and effect, and like a
balloon, when you push in one place, self-interested behavior pops out in another. As these
articles indicate, those who enact regulation sometimes get it right at first glance, but they're
rarely able to anticipate and control the response of those being regulated or the second-
order consequences of the rules.

Errors and misdeeds will occur as long as imperfect, self-interested humans stray into
excessive risk-taking. And as long as these things lead to bubbles and resulting crashes, the
willingness to dispense with regulation and rely on free markets will never be complete,
regardless of regulation's limitations.

 * * *

I believe a free market is the best decision maker, causing financial resources, labor and
intellectual capital to flow where they are most valuable and thus have the potential to be
best rewarded. But the ride will be bumpy - by necessity - and some of society's goals will
go unfulfilled. Of course, those who favor limits on government involvement in business argue
that financial and market regulation shouldn't be a vehicle for implementing social policy.

The collapse of the USSR shows the limits of a thoroughly controlled economy. On the other
hand, it's likely that China's impressive accomplishments over the last decade have been aided
by the fact that its economy is controlled, such that the movement of resources can be centrally
mandated in the short run. China's purposefulness is impressive, and China likely would have
accomplished less if it had to work entirely through free-market forces. Would we trade our
system (and results) for theirs? Will our answer be the same in twenty years? And will China
remain the same, or once the highly regulated system has raised standards of living, will people
insist on freer markets as well?

The debate will inevitably go on:

 What system is most likely to produce the results we seek? In the last few years we've
 seen calls for regulations to require "prudent" mortgage lending and prevent "excessive"
 compensation. What system is best able to define these amorphous terms and produce
 these results?
 How will economic goals be integrated and balanced with society's other priorities, and
 should they be?
 How will laissez-faire economics and financial regulation coexist, and what will be the
 consequences?

These questions will never be answered conclusively. The swing of the pendulum will continue
unabated.


Memo: How Quickly They Forget.

In January 2004 I received a letter from Warren Buffett (how's that for name dropping?)
 in which he wrote, "I've commented about junk bonds that last year's weeds have
 become this year's flowers. I liked them better when they were weeds."

 Warren's phrasings are always the clearest, catchiest and most on-target, and I thought
 this Buffettism captured the thought particularly well. Thus for Oaktree's 2004 investor
 conference we used the phrase "Yesterday's Weeds . . . Today's Flowers" as the title of a
 slide depicting the snapback of high yield bonds. It showed the 45% average yield at
 which a sample of ten bonds could have been bought during the Enron-plus-telecom
 meltdown of 2002 and the 6% average yield at which they could have been sold in 2003;
 on average, the yields had fallen by 87% in just thirteen months. The idea went full-
 circle in 2005, when Warren used our slide at the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting to
 illustrate how rapidly things can change in the world of investing.

 And that's the point of this memo. Asset prices fluctuate much more than fundamentals.
 This happens because, rather than applying moderation and balancing greed against fear,
 euphoria against depression, and risk tolerance against risk aversion, investors tend to
 oscillate wildly between the extremes. They apply optimism when things are going well
 in the world (elevating prices beyond reason) and pessimism when things are going
 poorly (depressing prices unreasonably). Shortness of memory plays a major part in
 abetting these swings. If investors remembered past bubbles and busts and their causes,
 and learned from them, the swings would moderate. But, in short, they don't. And they
 may be forgetting again.

 High yield bonds and many other investment media have once again gone from
 being weeds to flowers - from pariahs to market darlings - and it happened in a
 startlingly short period of time. As is so often the case, things that investors wouldn't
 touch in the depths of the crisis in late 2008 now strike them as good buys at twice the
 price. The swing of this pendulum recurs regularly and creates some of the greatest
 opportunities to lose or gain. Thus we must always be mindful.

 The Importance - and Shortcomings - of Investment Memory

 A number of my favorite quotations are on the subject of history and memory, and I've
 used them all in past memos. Humorist and author Mark Twain talked about the
 relevance of the past:

 History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme.

 The philosopher Santayana stressed the penalty for failing to attach sufficient importance
 to history:

 Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.

 And economist John Kenneth Galbraith described the shabby way investors treat history
 and those who consider it important:

 Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time
 or in past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory.
 In consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further
 consequence, when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again,
 sometimes in only a few years, they are hailed by a new, often youthful,
 and always supremely self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative
 discovery in the financial and larger economic world. There can be few
 fields of human endeavor in which history counts for so little as in the
 world of finance. Past experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at
 all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those who do not have the
 insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.

 String together these three pearls of wisdom and you get a pretty accurate picture of
 investment reality. Past patterns tend to recur. If you ignore that fact, you're likely
 to fall prey to those patterns rather than benefit from them. But when markets get
 cooking, the lessons of the past are readily dismissed. These are nothing short of
 eternal verities, and their collective message is indispensible.

 Why Does Investment Memory Fail?

 Think back to the emotions you felt so strongly during the recent financial crisis, and the
 terrifying events that brought them on. You swore at the time that you'd never forget,
 and yet their memory has receded and nowadays has relatively little influence on your
 decisions. Why does the collective memory of investment experiences - and especially
 the unpleasant ones - fade so thoroughly? There are a number of reasons.

 First, there's investor demographics. When the stock market declined for three
 straight years in 2000-02, for example, it had been almost seventy years since that had
 last happened in the Great Depression. Clearly, very few investors who were old
 enough to experience the first such episode were around for the second.

 For another example, I believe a prime contributor to the powerful equity bull market
 of the 1990s and its culmination in the tech bubble of 1999 was the fact that in the
 quarter century from 1975 through 1999, the S&P 500 saw only three minor annual

 declines: 6.4% in 1977, 4.2% in 1981, and 2.8% in 1990. In order to have
 experienced a bear market, an investor had to have been in the industry by 1974,
 when the index lost 24.3%, but the vast majority of 1999's investment professionals
 doubtless had less than the requisite 26 years of experience and thus had never seen
 stocks suffer a decline of real consequence.

 Second, the human mind seems to be very good at suppressing unpleasant
 memories. This is unfortunate, because unpleasant experiences are the source of the
 most important lessons. When I was in army basic training, I was sure the memories
 would remain vivid and provide material for a great book. Two months later they had
 disappeared. After the fact, we may remember intellectually but not emotionally: that
 is, the facts but not their impact.

 Finally, the important lessons of the past have to fight an uphill battle against
 human nature, and especially greed. Memories of crises tell us to apply prudence,
 patience, moderation and conservatism. But these things seem decidedly outdated
 when the market's in a bull phase and risk bearing is paying off, and if practiced they
 appear to yield nothing but opportunity costs.

 Charlie Munger contributed a great quote to my recent book, from Demosthenes:
 "Nothing is easier than self-deceit. For what each man wishes, that he also believes
 to be true." In other words, there's a powerful tendency to believe that which
 could make one rich if it were true.

 I've tried to spend the last 42 years with my eyes open and my memory engaged. As a
 result, a lot of what I write is based on recognition of past patterns. It's time to put my
 recollections to work, because I'm definitely seeing a trend in the direction of Galbraith's
 "same or closely similar circumstances."

 The Not-So-Distant Past

 It seems it was impossible - unless you were John Paulson - to escape entirely unscathed
 from the financial crisis of 2007-08. Most investors could only hope to have turned
 cautious in the run-up to the crisis, sold assets, increased the defensiveness of their
 remaining holdings, reduced or eschewed leverage, and secured capital with which to buy
 at the bottom in order to benefit from the subsequent recovery.

 What might have prompted investors to do these things in advance of the mid-2007 onset
 of the crisis? Almost no one fully foresaw the impending subprime meltdown, and few
 macro-forecasts and market analyses were sufficiently pessimistic. Rather, I think
 investors would have been most likely to take the appropriate actions if they were aware
 of the pro-risk behavior taking place around them.

 One of the most important things we can do is take note of other investors' attitudes
 and behavior regarding risk. Fear, worry, skepticism and risk aversion are the things
 that keep the market at equilibrium and prospective returns fair. When investors fear loss
 appropriately, too-risky deals can't get done, and risky investments are required to offer
 high prospective returns and generous risk premiums. (And when fear reaches extreme
 levels during crises, the capital markets turn too stingy, asset prices sink too low, and
 potential returns become excessive.)
 But when investors don't fear sufficiently - when they're risk tolerant rather than risk
 averse - they let down their guard, surrender their discipline, accept rosy projections,
 enter into unwise deals, and settle for too little in the way of prospective returns and risk
 premiums.
 The years immediately preceding the onset of the crisis in mid-2007 constituted
 nothing short of a "silly season." It seemed the financial world had gone crazy, with
 deals getting done that were beyond reason. Investors acted as if risk had been banished.
 They believed that the markets had been rendered safe by the combination of (a) an
 omniscient, omnipotent Fed providing a "Greenspan put," (b) the wonders of
 securitization, tranching and selling onward and (c) the "wall of liquidity" coming toward
 our markets, composed of excess reserves being recycled by China and the oil-producing
 nations. They accepted the alchemy under which financial engineering could turn sub-
 prime mortgages into triple-A debt. And they viewed leverage as sure to have a salutary
 effect on returns.

 There's nothing more risky than a widespread belief that there's no risk . . . but
 that's what characterized the investment world. It was possible to conclude in 2005-
 07 that investors were applying insufficient risk aversion and thus engaging in risky
 behavior, elevating asset prices, reducing prospective returns, and raising risk levels.
 What were the signs?

 The issuance of non-investment grade debt was at record levels.
 An unusually high percentage of the issuance was rated triple-C, something that's not
 possible when attitudes toward risk are sober.
 "Dividend recaps" went unquestioned, with buyout companies borrowing money with
 which to pay dividends, vastly increasing their leverage and reducing their ability to
 get through tough times.
 Credit instruments were increasingly marked by few or no covenants to protect
 lenders from managements' machinations, and by interest payments that could be
 made with debt rather than cash at the companies' discretion.
 Collateralized loan and debt obligations were accepted as being respectable
 instruments - with the risk made to vanish - despite the questionable underlying
 assets.
 Buyouts of larger and larger companies were done at increasing valuation multiples,
 with rising debt ratios and shrinking equity contributions, and despite the fact that the
 target companies were increasingly cyclical.

 Despite all of these indications of falling credit standards and rising riskiness, the
 yield spread between high yield bonds and Treasury notes shrank to record lows.
 The generous capital market conditions and low cost of capital for borrowers caused
 buyout fund managers to describe the period as "the golden age of private equity."
 Conversely, then, for lenders it was the pits.

 In 2005-07, investors suspended skepticism and disbelief, ignored the risk of loss,
 and obsessed instead about avoiding the risk of missing opportunities. This caused
 them to buy securities at low implied returns; employ vast amounts of low-cost debt to
 lever up those returns; loosen the terms on debt they would provide; and participate in
 black-box vehicles on the basis of investment banks' recommendations, the
 nontransparent machinations of financial engineers, and the imprimatur of far-from-
 perfect rating agencies.

 In short, investors were oblivious to risk and thus failed to demand adequate
 risk premiums. The environment could only be described as euphoric. Here's
 how I put it in "It Is What It Is" (March 2006):
 The skinniness of today's risk premiums can be observed most clearly in
 the high yield bond market, where prospective returns can be calculated
 with precision and yield spreads are in the vicinity of historic lows, and in
 certain real estate markets, where actual cash returns are similarly low.
 But the difficulty of quantifying prospective returns in public and private
 equity doesn't mean the offerings there are any less paltry. And, as Alan
 Greenspan said, ". . . history has not dealt kindly with the aftermath of
 protracted periods of low risk premiums."

 Market Conditions Today

 In May 2005, I wrote a memo entitled "There They Go Again," complaining that
 investors were taking excessive comfort from mindless platitude of the type that
 accompany and abet the creation of every bubble. These are accepted as a substitute for
 putting rational intrinsic valuations on the assets that are the subject of the bubble, and
 despite repeated evidence that trees can't grow to the sky. I touched on the mania for real
 estate, as well as the growing popularity of hedge funds and private equity. I went on to
 assert that this behavior - and the supportive underlying capital market trends - had
 turned the markets into a "low-return world."

 I recite all of this because I have no doubt that investors are making substantial
 movement back in the same direction. To illustrate, here's an account of capital
 market conditions in 2011 (Bridgewater Daily Observations, February 15):

 Consistent with the pickup in credit creation that we have seen elsewhere, LBO
 activity and the credit pipes that are supporting it have recently improved. Since the
 first quarter of 2010 we have seen a steady rise in LBO activity, starting from a very

 low base. The rate of activity is now roughly similar to the average level of activity
 since 1985, excluding the boom and bust period of 2006 to 2009. . . . today's deals
 are similar in size but the number of deals has risen by more than the dollar value of
 deals. We also see that the leverage in the deals is increasing. For example, so far
 this year the average deal was financed with 30% equity, down from last year's 38%,
 though still up from the most leveraged period of 2005 to 2009 when deals were
 financed with an average of 25% equity. The leveraged loan market has also picked
 up and an increasing percentage of leveraged loans are going toward LBOs. A few
 new CLOs and mutual funds have been created that are concentrated on the leveraged
 loan market, indicative of renewed demand. Investor demand has pushed prices back
 up to par and allowed a decline in the average credit quality of the loans, with
 increasing indications of "covenant light" loans getting done.

 In other words, in most regards the capital markets - and investors' tolerance of risk - are
 retracing their steps back in the direction of the bubble-ish pre-crisis years. Low yields,
 declining yield spreads, rising leverage ratios, payment-in-kind bonds, covenant-lite debt,
 increasing levels of LBO activity and the beginnings of the return of levered, structured
 vehicles . . . all of these are available for the eye to see.

 For a case in point, let me recap a note I received from one of our veteran high yield bond
 analysts regarding a deal that recently had come to market:

 PIK/toggle bonds: the company can elect to pay interest in debt rather than cash
 Holdco obligation: debt of a holding company, removed from the moneymaking
 assets
 Use of proceeds: to pay a dividend to the equity sponsor, returning half of the equity
 it put into the company just a few months earlier
 The sponsor's purchase price for the company in 2010 was 1.45 times what the seller
 had bought it for in 2008
 The company operates in a commodity industry where annual sales are shrinking and
 costs are variable and unpredictable
 Negative earnings comparisons are expected, since the environment makes it hard to
 pass on rising raw material costs
 EBITDA coverage of interest expense plus capital expenditures is modestly above 1x
 The company is incorporated in Luxembourg, an uncertain bankruptcy environment
 The assessment of Oaktree's Sheldon Stone: "I know they don't ring a bell at the top,
 but they should on this deal!"

 It's easy to gauge bond investors' attitudes. Here are the yield to maturity and yield
 spread versus Treasurys on the average high yield bond at a few points in the recent past
 and today:

 Yield to Spread vs.
 Maturity Treasurys

 The yield spread on the average high yield bond is still on the generous side relative to
 the 30-year norm of 350-550 basis points, a range of spreads that has given rise to
 excellent relative returns over that period. On the other hand, (a) spreads have fallen
 back to the normal range from the crisis-induced stratosphere and (b) the lowness of
 today's interest rates means that reasonable spreads translate into promised returns that
 are low in the absolute. The story's the same for many asset classes.

 I don't mean to pick on high yield bonds. I use them here as my prime example only
 because of my familiarity with them and because their fixed-income status facilitates
 quantification of attitudes toward risk. In fact, high yield bonds still deliver above
 average risk compensation, and they remain the highest returning contractual instruments
 and excellent diversifiers versus high grade bonds.

 If you refer back to a memo called "Risk and Return Today" (November 2004), you'll
 see that today's expected returns and risk premiums - especially on the left-hand side of
 the risk/return spectrum - are eerily similar to those prevailing in late 2004: money
 market at 1%; 5-year Treasurys at 3%; high grade bonds at 5%; high yield bonds at 7%;
 stocks expected to return 6-7%. I said at the time that low base interest rates and
 moderate demanded risk premiums had combined to render the risk/return curve "low
 and flat." In other words, absolute prospective returns were at modest levels, as were the
 return increments that could be expected for taking on incremental risk. I described that
 environment as "a low-return world." I think we're largely back there.

 (Please note that late 2004 was nowhere near the cyclical peak. Security prices continued
 to rise and prospective returns to fall for two and a half years thereafter. In particular, in
 the 30 months following the publication of that memo, high yield bonds went on to return
 a total of 19.7%. So similarities to 2004 don't constitute a sign of impending doom, but
 perhaps a foreshadowing of a potential move into bubble territory.)

 I want to state very clearly that I do not believe security prices have returned to the
 2006-07 peaks. It doesn't feel like the silly season is back in full. Investors aren't
 euphoric. Rather they seem like what my late father-in-law used to call "handcuff

 volunteers" - people who do things because they have no choice. They're also not
 oblivious to the risks that exist. I imagine the typical investor as saying, "I'm not happy,
 but I have to buy it." Finally, the leverage used at the peak of risk-prone pursuit of return
 in 2005-07 isn't nearly as prevalent today, perhaps because investors are chastened, but
 more likely because it's not available in the same amounts.

 There may be corners of the market where elevated popularity and enthusiastic buying
 have caused prices to move beyond reason: high-tech stocks, social networks, emerging
 markets from time to time, perhaps gold and other commodities (what's the reasonable
 price for a non-cash-flow-producing asset?) But for the most part, I think investors are
 taking the least risk they can while assembling portfolios that they think can achieve their
 needed returns or actuarial assumptions.

 In general, I would describe most security prices as falling somewhere between fair
 and full. Not necessarily bubbly, but also not cheap.

 Especially since the publication of my book, people have been asking me for the secret to
 risk control. "Okay, I'll read the 180 pages. But what's really the most important
 thing?" If I had to identify a single key to consistently successful investing, I'd say
 it's "cheapness." Buying at low prices relative to intrinsic value (rigorously and
 conservatively derived) holds the key to earning dependably high returns, limiting risk
 and minimizing losses. It's not the only thing that matters - obviously - but it's
 something for which there is no substitute. Without doing the above, "investing" moves
 closer to "speculating," a much less dependable activity. When investors are serene or
 even euphoric, rather than discomforted, prices rise and we become less likely to find the
 bargains we want.

 So if you could ask just one question regarding an individual security, asset class or
 market, it should be "is it cheap?" Oaktree's investment professionals try to ask it,
 in different ways, every day.

 And what makes for cheapness? In sum, the attitudes and behavior of others.

 I try to get away from it, but I can't. The quote I return to most often in these memos,
 even 17 years after the first time, is another from Warren Buffett: "The less prudence
 with which others conduct their affairs, the greater prudence with which we should
 conduct our own affairs." When others are paralyzed by fear, we can be aggressive. But
 when others are unafraid, we should tread with the utmost caution. Other people's
 fearlessness invariably translates into inflated prices, depressed potential returns
 and elevated risk.

 Today, pension funds and endowments simply can't achieve their goal of nominal returns
 in the vicinity of eight percent if they keep much money in Treasurys or high grade
 bonds, and they may not even expect public equities to be much help. They've moved
 into high yield bonds, private equity and hedge funds . . . not because they want to, but

 because they feel they have to. They just can't settle for the returns available on more
 traditional investments. Thus their risk taking is in large part involuntary and perhaps
 unenthusiastic.

 So where do we stand today?

 General interest rates are some of the lowest in history.
 Yield spreads are about normal.
 Returns on low-risk assets are reasonable in relative terms but skimpy in the absolute.
 Investors are forced toward pro-risk behavior because of the lowness of returns in the
 safer, low-risk portion of the risk/return curve.
 Thus investors are jettisoning the conservatism they adopted at the depths of the
 financial crisis, in many cases not out of choice.
 Investors are once again engaging in risky behavior, albeit not at peak levels of
 riskiness.

 Those of us who calibrate our behavior based on what others are doing should
 increase watchfulness and, as Buffett suggests, apply rising amounts of prudence.

 How Did Things Get This Way?

 Just two and a half years ago, in the depths of the financial crisis, I was convinced that
 pro-risk psychology had undergone lasting damage. With investment banks, rating
 agencies and financial engineers defrocked, no-lose investments collapsing, account
 balances decimated and investors disillusioned, it seemed it might be years before market
 psychology recovered. And yet markets began a dramatic recovery in early 2009,
 investors have returned to bearing risk, and many indices are back in the vicinity of their
 pre-crisis peaks. What's behind this turn of events?

 In 2007 and 2008, governments around the world rushed to support financial institutions
 and stimulate economies. They did this by making liquidity readily available and cutting
 interest rates to near zero.

 Everyone knew the rate cuts would stimulate the economy by encouraging borrowing and
 reducing the cost of doing business, and that they would increase the profit margin in
 lending, buttressing financial institutions. But I don't think anyone fully appreciated the
 impact they would have on reviving pro-risk behavior.

 In short, the rate cuts made it unrewarding to hold cash, T-bills and high grade bonds.
 Investors looking for returns in line with their needs - or income on which to live - were
 literally forced to move into riskier asset classes in pursuit of returns in excess of a few
 percent.

 Much of the money that normally would be invested in the giant Treasury market simply
 couldn't stay there because the yields were so low. Thus large amounts flowed toward
 smaller markets where they were quite capable of lifting prices. Nothing can reduce
 returns, worsen terms or raise risk faster than "too much money chasing too few deals."
 It's disproportionate flows of capital into a market that give rise to the disastrous
 race to the bottom such as we saw in 2005-07. Greater sums are provided to weaker
 borrowers at lower interest rates and with looser terms. Higher prices are paid for
 assets: first less of a discount from intrinsic value, then the full intrinsic value, and
 eventually premiums above intrinsic value. These processes account for many of the
 trends decried here.

 In addition, I would point out that the pain of the crisis was surprisingly short-lived. The
 real panic began on September 15, 2008, the day Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy.
 Until then, the world seemed to be coping and investors retained their equanimity. But
 Lehman, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Merrill Lynch, Washington Mutual and AIG fell like
 dominoes in short order, and in the last fifteen weeks of 2008 people were paralyzed by
 fear of a global financial meltdown.

 And then things turned in the first quarter of 2009, primarily, I think, because people
 were coerced to move further out on the risk curve as described above. Since then the
 markets have risen dramatically from their lows.

 In distressed debt, for example, the post-Lehman days and weeks were characterized by
 terror, uncertainty, forced selling, illiquidity and huge mark-to-market losses. But if you
 look back, you see that the panic and pain - and thus the greatest buying opportunity -
 really lasted only fifteen weeks, through the end of 2008. Prices continued downward in
 the first quarter of 2009, but without the deluge of supply brought on by the previous
 quarter's forced selling. By April prices were headed up. So the lesson was painful but
 short-lived and, apparently, easily forgotten.

 As usual, the cyclical upswing is circular and self-reinforcing. It takes on the appearance
 of a virtuous cycle that will proceed non-stop, and it does so . . . until it fails. Here's an
 example of the process at work:

 The pursuit of return caused people to move from Treasurys to high yield bonds.
 The revival of demand enabled companies to raise money.
 The reopening of the capital markets made it possible for companies to do bond
 exchanges and refinancings: extending maturities, extinguishing covenants and
 capturing bond discounts, converting them into reduced amounts of debt outstanding.
 In some cases equity could be issued to delever balance sheets.
 These remedial actions improved companies' creditworthiness and brought down the
 default rate on high yield bonds from 10.8% in 2009 to a startling 1.1% in 2010, the
 greatest one-year decline in history.

 The resulting price appreciation produced profits for those who'd bought, turning
 investor psychology more rosy and producing envy - and thus a rush to join in -
 among those who had been slow to invest.
 And the combination of these things convinced people that conditions had improved,
 making them still more willing to take on increased risk.

 I thought the lessons of 2007-08 had been etched into people's psyches, and that the
 return to pro-risk behavior would therefore be slow. But clearly that hasn't been the case.

 Prudent Behavior in a Low-Return World

 The 2005 memo I mentioned earlier, "There They Go Again," proceeded from the
 discussion of the low and flat risk/return curve contained in "Risk and Return Today" to
 ponder what investors might do in times of low prospective returns and risk premiums.
 The possibilities fell into just a few categories:

 Go to cash - not a real alternative for most investors.
 Ignore the lowness of absolute returns and pursue the best relative returns.
 Forget that elevated prices might imply a correction, and buy for the long run.
 Reach for return, going out further on the risk curve in pursuit of returns that used to
 be available with greater safety.
 Concentrate investments in "special niches and special people"; by this I meant
 emphasizing strategies offering exceptional bargains and managers with enough skill
 to wring value-added returns from assets of moderate riskiness.

 Of all of these, I consider reaching for return to be the most flawed, especially if it's done
 without being fully conscious (which is often the case when return becomes hard to come
 by). I've described this approach as "insisting on achieving high returns in a low-return
 world" and reminded people of Peter Bernstein's admonition: "The market's not a very
 accommodating machine; it won't provide high returns just because you need them."

 Here's what I wrote in May 2005:

 Given today's paucity of prospective return at the low-risk end of the
 spectrum and the solutions being ballyhooed at the high-risk end, many
 investors are moving capital to riskier (or at least less traditional)
 investments. But (a) they're making those riskier investments just when
 the prospective returns on those investments are the lowest they've ever
 been; (b) they're accepting return increments for stepping up in risk that are
 as slim as they've ever been; and (c) they're signing up today for things
 they turned down (or did less of) in the past, when the prospective returns
 were much higher. This may be exactly the wrong time to add to risk in
 pursuit of more return. You want to take risk when others are fleeing from
 it, not when they're competing with you to do so.

 Even six years later, I can't think of any responses to a low-return world beyond those
 enumerated above. Limit risk, sacrificing return. Accept risk in pursuit of return, and
 pray the consequences will be tolerable. Or strive to find ways to augment returns
 through means other than risk bearing.

 None of these possible solutions is perfect and without pitfalls. In fact, each brings
 its own form of risk. Staying safe entails the risk of inadequate return. Reaching
 for return increases the risk of financial loss. And the search for "alpha" managers
 introduces the risk of choosing the wrong ones. But, as they say, "it is what it is."
 When it's a low-return world, there are no easy solutions devoid of downside.

 The Right Approach for Today

 One of the things that makes investing interesting is the ever-changing nature of the
 route to profit, the pitfalls that are present, and the tools and approaches that
 should be employed. Conscious decisions regarding these things should underlie all
 efforts to manage capital, and they must be revisited constantly as circumstances and
 asset prices change. What's right today?

 First, should you prepare for prosperity or not? By prosperity I mean a return to the
 happy days of the 1980s and '90s, when reported economic growth was strong and
 consumers were eager to spend. My answer is that we're not likely to see anything like
 that, in large part because in those decades the gap between stagnant incomes and
 vigorous consumption growth was bridged through buying on credit. Instead, in the
 years ahead I think (a) growth in employment and incomes will be sluggish, (b)
 consumers should be restrained in their borrowing as a result of having experienced the
 crisis, (c) consumer credit shouldn't be available as readily, and (d) borrowing against
 home equity will be much less of a factor, especially because home equity is so scarce.

 Second, should you worry more about losing money or about missing opportunities?
 This one's easy for me. First, the macro uncertainties tell me we won't be seeing a
 highly effervescent economy or market environment. Second, other people's
 increasingly aggressive behavior tells me to seek cover. And third, since I don't see
 many compellingly cheap assets, I doubt there will be gains big enough to make us kick
 ourselves for having invested too cautiously.

 And that brings me to my third question: what tools should you employ? In late
 2008 and early 2009, you needed just two things to achieve big profits: money to commit
 and the nerve to commit it. If you had caution, conservatism, risk control, discipline and
 selectivity, you probably achieved lower returns than otherwise (although having factored
 those things into your analysis might have given you the confidence needed to implement
 favorable conclusions in that terrible environment). The short answer was simple: money
 and nerve.

 But what if you had money and nerve in 2006 or early 2007? The results would have
 been disastrous. In those times you needed caution, conservatism, risk control, discipline
 and selectivity to stay out of trouble. In short, when the market is defaulting on its job
 of being a disciplinarian, discernment becomes our individual responsibility.

 So then, which is the right set of equipment for today? I think we're back to needing the
 cautious attributes, not the aggressive. An unusually large number of thorny macro
 issues are outstanding, including:

 the so-so U.S. recovery;
 the U.S.'s deficit, debt ceiling impasse and dysfunctional political process;
 the economic impact of deleveraging and austerity;
 the over-indebtedness of peripheral eurozone countries;
 the possibility of rekindled inflation and rising interest rates;
 the uncertain outlook for the dollar, euro and sterling; and
 the instability in the Middle East and resulting uncertainty over the price of oil.

 With all of these, plus prices that are fair to full and investor behavior that has increased
 in aggressiveness, I would rather gird for the things that can go wrong than ensure
 maximum participation if things go right. (Of course that's not an unfamiliar refrain
 from me.)

 The other day, the investment committee of a non-profit on which I sit decided to take the
 first steps toward marshaling resources and managers so as to be ready to buy into
 beaten-down assets after the next round of bubble and bust. And it wasn't even my idea!

 We can never be sure what will happen - and certainly not when - but it's
 important to be prepared for what's likely to lie ahead. And understanding the
 inevitable pendulum swing in the way investments are viewed - from weeds to
 flowers and back - is an essential ingredient in being able to do so.

 P.s.: I hope you'll consider rereading "Risk and Return Today" (November 2004) and
 "There They Go Again" (May 2005) (see Hopefully
 they'll strengthen the case for reflecting on past patterns and help you think through the
 current conditions. You might also take a look at "The Cat, the Tree, the Carrot and the
 Stick" in "What's Going On" (May 2003) for a metaphorical look at the process of risk
 acceptance. Today's echoes of those past times are worth noting.


Memo: Down to the Wire.

Here are the ingredients in the plot: A problem everyone's aware of. If it isn't resolved,
 a shutdown with unspecified but possibly disastrous consequences. A deadline which
 seems indispensable, since in its absence it appears nothing would be done. And despite
 the presence of the oncoming freight train, movement toward a solution is deterred by
 highly entrenched positions. It's truly white-knuckle time, and if the progress toward a
 solution continues to lag, the things that must happen won't.

 I'm not talking about the nearly concluded drama at the National Football League, where
 failure to reach a labor settlement for just a few more days would have caused significant
 changes in the schedule for the coming year, upsetting the flow of wealth to owners and
 players and depriving fans of the game they love. I'm talking about the down-to-the-wire
 battle over the U.S. debt ceiling. I've decided to devote a memo to the debt issue and its
 significance. I especially hope it'll be helpful to our non-U.S. clients, for whom the lack
 of progress to date must be absolutely incomprehensible.

 Interestingly, the immediate debt crisis is somewhat artificial. It is occasioned now only
 because of our debt ceiling, which currently limits the net debt of the United States to
 $14.29 trillion. Such ceilings are far from the norm worldwide. Many other nations
 seem to function no worse without them.

 But the U.S. has the historical accident of a ceiling, and we must deal with it. Because
 the limitation is set in terms of absolute dollars and not indexed for inflation or growth,
 we would run into it every few years even if our debt only grew apace with the economy.
 "In fact, it's been raised nearly 100 times over the decades." (Financial Times, July 16)
 But thanks to the especially rapid growth of our debt relative to GDP in recent years -
 exacerbated by the Afghan and Iraq wars and the financial crisis - the ceiling has the
 potential to provide some real excitement every once in a while.

 The Relentless Growth of Debt

 Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Iceland, the U.S., California . . . the list of
 governments with debt problems is long and grows longer. The issue has flared up in the
 last fifteen months and is often in the headlines nowadays.

 And yet, the general conditions causing the concern are nothing new. The deficits and
 debt that worry people today have existed for a good while: similar in kind albeit perhaps

 not in degree. This merely shows that in the economic/investment world, what matters
 most in the short run isn't necessarily what's true but, rather, what's on people's minds.

 Serious attention began to be paid to government debt in April 2010, when the Greek
 crisis burst into the news. Prior to that, no one seemed to worry about the way Greece -
 like many other countries - increased its budget deficit and national debt each year
 relative to its GDP. Banks and investors around the world were perfectly willing to
 extend credit without limitation based on Greece's strong EU-backed credit rating, and
 without thought as to whether there was any prospect for Greece ever paying down the
 debt, or even slowing its growth or growing out of it.

 If you ask me, one of the most pronounced trends in the global economy over the course
 of my 42-year career has been the growth in the use of credit. And it's not just
 governments that have vastly expanded their use of credit over this period.

 If I wanted to buy something upon my arrival at college in 1963, I had two choices: I
 could spend money I had in my pocket, or I could write a check against money I had in
 the bank. The one thing I couldn't do - now here's a radical concept - is spend money I
 didn't have. As a result, I had no way to buy things I couldn't afford.

 But then, around 1967, Bank of America came out with the first credit card, the
 BankAmericard, and First National City Bank countered with The Everything Card.
 (When I was hired into FNCB that year for my first summer job, it was to go door-to-
 door trying to convince merchants to accept the card. But then volume on the New York
 Stock Exchange spiked to 25 million shares a day and banks like FNCB couldn't keep up
 with the related paperwork; thus I was assigned instead to a task force whose job it was to
 eliminate bottlenecks in the back office. But that's another story.)

 Before the BankAmericard and The Everything Card, the only plastic in circulation
 consisted of T&E ("travel and entertainment") cards - American Express, Diners Club
 and Carte Blanche - which generally were limited to people in the upper economic strata
 and had to be paid off each month. It was only in the last forty years that we've seen the
 morphing of BankAmericard into Visa and The Everything Card into MasterCard. With
 them came the ability of consumers to maintain an outstanding balance. Now it was easy
 for people to buy things they couldn't afford. And so they did.

 When I was a boy, as I recall, owing money was considered undesirable and debts were
 generally expected to be paid off. When people bought homes, they put down 30% and
 took out thirty-year mortgages to finance the rest. They made level payments that
 included a substantial principal component that grew over time, eventually extinguished
 their debt, invited their friends over for mortgage-burning parties, and owned their homes
 free and clear in time for retirement.

 But attitudes toward debt underwent significant change, and in the last forty years we've
 seen the following:

 Vast expansion of the use of credit cards, the balances on which are never
 expected to be paid off.
 Innovative mortgages requiring little or no principal amortization; reverse
 mortgages, where you owe more at the end than the beginning; declining down
 payment requirements; and eventually the availability of mortgage loans
 exceeding purchase prices.
 Home equity loans enabling owners to drain off any equity in their homes. Fifty
 years ago these were called second mortgages, and people who had them were
 considered by their neighbors to be in financial trouble.
 Growth in corporate debt, and the extension of borrowing power to companies
 with "speculative" credit ratings.
 The development of the commercial paper market, where companies could access
 "permanent" capital with maturities measured in days, on the assumption that the
 paper could always be rolled over.
 Creation of highly levered investment entities.
 Vastly increased steady-state borrowing on the part of nations, whereas,
 previously, deficit spending had been limited to occasional efforts to fight
 recession through stimulus.

 What's the upshot of all of this? For the last several years, as I've visited with clients
 around the world, I've described the typical American as follows (exaggerating for effect,
 of course): He has $1,000 in the bank, owes $10,000 on his credit card, makes $20,000 a
 year after tax, and spends $22,000. And what do lenders do about this? They mail him
 additional credit cards.

 Most people laugh - perhaps uncomfortably - when they hear this. But no one says it's
 inaccurate or benign. The bottom line is that consumer credit has been extended without
 any thought for how the full balance might ever be paid off. As long as the borrower is
 able to make monthly payments covering the interest and a tiny bit of principal, the
 situation is considered acceptable. But that's not my version of fiscal health.

 So now let's jump from the top of the above list of developments to the bottom. In much
 the same way, credit has been available to governments deemed creditworthy without
 limit and without concern for the fact that:

 Countries were constantly spending more than they were taking in.
 Their deficits were growing non-stop relative to GDP.
 Their national debts likewise were expanding relative to GDP.
 In other words, repayment of principal was absolutely unimaginable.

 One of the most striking aspects of debt in the modern era is that little if any
 attention is paid to repayment of principal. No one pays off their debt. They merely
 roll it over . . . and add to it. Thus credit ratings are highly deficient (shocker!) in a way
 that few people talk about. What ratings describe isn't the borrower's ability to repay
 principal, but its ability to make interest payments and refinance principal. But the
 assessment of their ability to roll their debt - likewise - isn't based on an ability to repay,
 but rather to refinance again. So ultimately the security of capital providers stems not
 from the borrower, but from the continued willingness of other capital providers to roll
 debts in the future. (It was their occasional refusal in 2007-08 that caused the worst
 moments of the financial crisis.)

 With no one asking how debt could be repaid, nations were allowed for decades to
 increase their deficits and debt non-stop relative to their GDP. And then, in the first
 quarter of 2010, the little boy stepped out from the crowd, took note of the
 emperor's non-existent new clothes, and said "Hey, wait a minute: Greece will never
 be able to repay even the debt it has, forgetting that it takes on more all the time. Its
 economy is non-competitive and stagnant, and tax compliance is non-existent. They
 shouldn't be able to borrow."

 That's all it took. Greece was denied further credit. And then people took a look around
 peripheral Europe and saw more of the same. Today, although the situation is nowhere
 as dire, they're also looking at the U.S. and some of its states.

 It's Not the Ceiling

 In June, the debt of the U.S. reached the ceiling, meaning no more could be issued.
 That's bad news for a country that continuously spends more than it takes in. Thus the
 deadline imposed by the debt ceiling has brought the issue to the forefront. (If the debt
 limit was reached in June and we've continued to spend more than our revenues, how
 have we financed the shortfall? The federal government has borrowed from federal
 retirement funds; the courts ruled in the past that when we do this, it's not an expansion
 of our net debt, since America is borrowing "from itself." The well-known deadline of
 August 2 is the date on which the capacity for borrowing in this way is projected to be
 exhausted.)

 The problem isn't the ceiling, it's our behavior. The debt ceiling merely imposes a
 discipline that our national leaders should provide but generally haven't. On this note, in
 his press conference on July 15, when asked about conservatives' insistence on a
 balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution, President Obama replied, "We don't
 need a constitutional amendment to do that [balance the budget]; what we need to do is to
 do our jobs." But clearly we do need some enforced discipline, because the years in
 which we haven't run a deficit have been by far the exception of late, not the rule.

 The U.S. has run deficits almost every year since World War II, with prominent surpluses

 Go back a few decades, and the characterizations of the two political parties were fairly
 well established. The Democrats stood for progressive taxation (meaning a higher
 percentage burden on top earners) and more government spending, especially in aid of
 those in need. The Republicans were the party of strong defense, small government,
 fiscal responsibility and balanced budgets.

 More recently, neither party has shown resolute fiscal discipline. Both have added
 unfunded programs. Tax reduction has been discovered as a growth stimulant. The
 upward march of our deficit and debt has been nearly uninterrupted.

 We've seen the enactment of spending programs without providing for increased
 revenues to pay for them, and cuts in taxes without corresponding reductions in spending.
 As President Obama put it on July 15:

 . . . we cut taxes without paying for them over the last decade; we ended up
 instituting new programs like a prescription drug program for seniors that was
 not paid for; we fought two wars, we didn't pay for them; we had a bad recession
 that required a Recovery Act and stimulus spending and helping states . . .

 The blame isn't limited to one party. The increases in deficits and debt took place when
 both Democrats and Republicans were in power, and while control of government was
 both divided and in the hands of a single party.

 It seems apparent that in recent decades, politics has become more partisan, and
 solving the nation's problems has taken a back seat to adhering to ideology and
 getting re-elected. And what gets people elected? Promises of more: more benefits
 without increased taxation, and more take-home pay without reduced largesse.
 Only recently have large numbers of politicians begun to face the music, admitting
 that the government has to either do less or charge people more or both.

 Obstacles to a Solution

 From my point of view, so much that's illogical is going on regarding these issues that I
 sometimes find it hard to get my head around the current "debate" (if we can call it that
 when so few people are conversing). Here's what I think is the logic of the situation
 (with data from FactCheck, July 15):

 Expenditures have risen relative to the economy even as revenues have declined.

 Washington's spending has recently been higher as a percentage
 of the nation's economic output than at any time since World
 War II. But by the same measure, Washington's revenues are the
 lowest in more than 60 years.

 The government is spending far more than it brings in. The current deficit is in
 excess of $1 trillion, and "the U.S. is borrowing about 36 cents of every dollar
 spent so far this year. It borrowed 37 cents on the dollar last year, and 40 cents in

 There's no way to change these facts in the short run. In particular:

 The largest components of federal spending are Social Security
 and Medicare programs for the elderly (33.5 percent of total
 outlays in 2010) and national defense (20.1 percent). Interest
 payments on federal debt . . . accounted for 5.7 percent of all
 federal spending.

 Thus revenues (which equate to 64% of spending) just slightly more than cover
 the 59.3% of the budget that went for these inescapable expenditures. What about
 cutting programs that are unpopular and more discretionary? That wouldn't
 accomplish much:

 Foreign aid . . . amounts to less than 1 percent of the entire
 budget. . . . All agriculture programs - including farm subsidies
 - make up just over one-half of 1 percent.

 When deficit spending is unavoidable, we have to borrow.

 Since we're at the current debt ceiling, continuing to borrow requires that the
 ceiling be raised.

 If the ceiling isn't raised and we can't borrow, we won't be able to make good on
 all of our obligations. Someone will have to go unpaid: employees, creditors,
 soldiers, retirees, vendors, etc. I don't think anyone believes we can make good
 on all of our obligations without borrowing.

 Thus we have to solve this immediate problem. We can enact spending cuts
 and/or tax increases, but invariably these things will only take effect over the long
 run. In the short run we have no choice but to raise the debt ceiling and keep
 borrowing.

 * * *

 When the House of Representatives is under the control of one party and the
 other party is in charge of the Senate and the White House, solving gritty
 problems requires compromise.

 A compromise is defined as a solution in which both sides make sacrifices, giving
 up some of what they want and making concessions to the other side that they
 find distasteful. On July 14 The New York Times cited Sen. Alan Simpson on
 President Ronald Reagan's pragmatic attitude toward compromise:

 He had a rule: If you can agree on 80 percent, take it. He raised
 taxes 11 times in eight years. He did it to make the country run.

 But compromise runs directly against ideology and is incompatible with lines
 drawn in the sand. Some of today's elected officials have pledged not to permit
 any increases in taxes. Others have vowed to resist any cuts in entitlement
 programs such as Social Security and Medicaid. Some even campaigned on
 explicit promises not to compromise and not to raise the debt ceiling; for
 people like these, reaching agreement would be a problem, not a solution.

 Even among Republicans, it seems that some put the highest priority on balancing
 the budget while others insist on shrinking the government. This creates a
 fundamental intra-party conflict, since increasing government revenues represents
 a way to accomplish the former but is in direct contravention of the latter. (See
 "Anarchists and Tassel Loafers," The New York Times, July 14.)

 There's another important difference of opinion; which is more important,
 adherence to avowed principles or action to address the short-term problem?
 Many politicians have made public pronouncements that render the two mutually
 exclusive.

 Thus to date enough people have refused to accord first priority to solving
 the debt problem in the short term that a compromise solution has been
 rendered unreachable.

 * * *

 The picture is complicated by the fact that any action to reduce the deficit and
 related borrowing - be it through reduced spending or increased revenues - would
 have a depressing impact on an economy that is already anemic.

 Thus many people want to maintain or increase spending or cut taxes to stimulate
 the economy, even though doing so would exacerbate the problems of deficit and
 debt in the short run.

 There is considerable disagreement over which would be worse for the economy:
 a $1 reduction in government spending or a $1 dollar increase in taxes?
 Economics is too imprecise to produce a definitive conclusion. And economists
 have ideologies, too; Republican economists tend to describe revenue increases as
 more harmful, while Democratic economists are more likely to resist spending
 cuts.

 * * *

 If the debt ceiling isn't raised, as I said, some people will have to go unpaid.
 Among the candidates are our nation's creditors. Failure to pay creditors is called
 default.

 Some lawmakers believe that, even if the ceiling isn't raised, we'll manage to pay
 creditors and avoid default.

 At least until recently, and perhaps still, some of those involved have been
 unconvinced that failure to act would have grave consequences.

 At a closed-door meeting Friday morning [July 15], GOP leaders
 turned to their most trusted budget expert, Rep. Paul D. Ryan of
 Wisconsin, to explain to rank-and-file members what many
 others have come to understand: A fiscal meltdown could occur if
 Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling. House Speaker John A.
 Boehner of Ohio underscored the point to dispel the notion that
 failure to allow more borrowing is an option. "He said if we pass
 Aug. 2, it would be like 'Star Wars,' " said Rep. Scott DesJarlais,
 a freshman from Tennessee. "I don't think the people who are
 railing against raising the debt ceiling fully understand that." (Los
 Angeles Times, July 16)

 * * *

 If the U.S. defaults on its debt, our credit rating will likely be cut from triple-A.
 But there may be people who don't believe this, while others seem unconvinced
 that it would be a serious development.

 I believe, however, that (a) our rating will be cut if there's a default, (b) this
 would have serious repercussions for our cost of borrowing, and (c) even if we
 were able to avoid default and/or downgrade, the feeling that our political leaders
 had engaged in irresponsible action could reduce lenders' view of our credit and
 increase our cost of borrowing anyway. I strongly doubt the dollar can remain
 the world's reserve currency, of which unlimited amounts are accepted,
 without unflinching adherence to the associated responsibilities.

 Another thing I'm most sure of is that no one knows what the repercussions
 of default and downgrade would be. They don't call economics "the dismal
 science" for nothing. When some people warn of Armageddon, others feel
 they're exaggerating for effect. There's no way to prove anything on this subject
 other than by letting it happen.

 Finally, I'm convinced that while it's not certain exactly what will happen if a
 solution isn't reached, some of the possible results could be very negative.

 This situation is incredibly complex and serious. I feel we need a compromise
 solution, because I'm just not willing to conduct an experiment with consequences
 that are unforeseeable and could be grave. But the events to date show us that
 compromise solutions are assured only when there's a broad consensus that an agreement
 is desirable, and that the consequences of not reaching one are worse than the
 disadvantages of the compromise. Nothing tells me that such a consensus is prevalent
 enough to guarantee that the underlying problem of deficit spending will be solved.

 The Most Likely Outcome

 If you want to get re-elected and suspect that failure to raise the ceiling might hurt your
 chances - or if you just believe raising the ceiling would be good for the country - you
 might agree to a compromise in the end. But, given the ideological divide, lawmakers
 will be more likely to accept a compromise if there's less substance and less teeth in it.

 Thus I think a solution will be reached. But given the complexity and difficulty of the
 issue and the short time remaining before the deadline, it's unlikely to be either detailed
 or iron-clad. The most likely outcome here is a short-term, stopgap solution. It
 probably won't require the balanced-budget amendment desired by conservatives, the
 broad spending cuts Republicans want, or the tax increases Democrats insist should be
 part of any deal . . . some or all of which we clearly need.

 In other words, the "solution" is unlikely to represent much fundamental progress;
 for the most part it'll just kick the can down the road. It may call for a new
 commission to study the problem, but:

 the last commission came up with a plan that was hailed by the commission
 members who were former elected officials, rejected by many of those still in
 office (who have to face voters), and quickly forgotten, and

 it's hard to believe that the likelihood of a plan being adopted will be greater
 without the presence of a deadline for raising the debt ceiling, as opposed to
 lower.

 Progress will be touted, but much of it will be illusory. In that regard, I'm reminded of
 the recently announced solution in the Minnesota budget stalemate. A good part of the
 financial shortfall was bridged with an agreement to securitize and sell off payments
 scheduled to be received in the future as a result of the tobacco settlement. But raising
 money by selling assets doesn't permanently fix an excess of expenses over revenues.
 That's like selling off manufacturing equipment to save a company that's operating in the
 red. (Note that one of the things that keeps government from taking a "businesslike"
 approach to fiscal issues is the fact that government accounting treats spending on capital
 assets the same as expenses, and the proceeds from asset sales the same as revenues. No
 business would join in these mistakes.)

 Regardless of the exact methodology, I believe that any "solution" announced this month
 will (a) fail to make fundamental improvement, and thus in the words of Rahm Emanuel
 will let the current crisis - with its potential to compel real change - go to waste, (b)
 delay any real action and (c) fail to reduce the likelihood of recurrence of the debt ceiling
 problem.

 * * *

 What we need is this:

 government expenditures that are limited to revenues, with the exception of
 isolated instances of deficit spending designed to fight recession, where after the
 deficits are promptly reversed by amassing surpluses, and

 encouragement for economic growth that enables the pie to grow and government
 to pay for its activities on a current basis.

 Anything else would be a short-term palliative . . . or a continued exercise in imprudence.
 Spending that grows no faster than GDP should be an imperative. Shrinking
 government's share of the economy seems highly desirable. National debt that is
 stable or declining as a percentage of GDP sounds compelling.

 (In addition to balancing the budget and growing the economy, I think we have to accept
 that the coming decades are likely to see U.S. standards of living decline relative to the
 rest of the world. Unless our goods offer a better cost/benefit bargain, there's no reason
 why American workers should continue to enjoy the same lifestyle advantage over
 workers in other countries. I just don't expect to hear many politicians own up to this
 reality on the stump.)

 To close, I'm going to borrow some quotations and data from Michael Cembalest, Chief
 Investment Officer of J.P. Morgan Private Bank (Eye on the Market, July 18):

 The long-term threat:

 . . . there are serious questions, most immediately about the sustainability
 of our commitment to growing entitlement programs . . . the time we have
 is growing short. (Paul Volcker, The New York Review of Books, June 24,

 According to the CBO alternative case (tax cuts do not sunset as planned;
 AMT keeps getting indexed to inflation; no Medicare cuts take place,
 etc.), by the year 2024, entitlements plus interest spending will be equal to
 total government revenue. Just 12 years ago, in 1999, the CBO estimated
 that this would not happen until 2060. The crossing point has moved in by
 36 years.

 In 1967, the government estimated that Medicare expenses would grow by
 7x by 1990 (unadjusted for inflation); they grew by 61x instead. In
 addition to the lack of cost controls on entitlements, demographic changes
 are a problem as well: the ratio of workers to Social Security recipients
 has declined from 17-to-1 in 1950 to 3-to-1 today.

 The short-term threat:

 As the largest buyer and holder of U.S. Treasury bonds, we need to
 seriously assess the risks. We hope that the U.S. government adopts a
 serious policy to ensure the interests of the investors. (China Cabinet
 Development Research Center, and the Chinese Foreign Ministry, after the
 Moody's downgrade watch was announced and S&P reportedly told
 lawmakers it might downgrade U.S. debt if payments were missed.)

 The essential element in any real solution:

 The country is so thoroughly given up to the spirit of the party, that not to
 follow blindfolded the one or the other is an inexpiable offense. Between
 both, I see the impossibility of pursuing the dictates of my own conscience
 without sacrificing every prospect, not merely of advancement, but even
 of retaining that character and reputation that I have enjoyed. Yet my
 choice is made; I am at least determined to have the approbation of my
 own reflections. (John Quincy Adams in his diary, on sticking to his
 principles and supporting the British embargo, knowing that it would harm
 his home state of Massachusetts and get him thrown out of the Federalist
 party)

 The world has awakened to the undesirability of ever-growing government debt.
 Repairing the situation will require difficult decisions and great sacrifices, especially
 on the part of lawmakers required to vote for unpopular solutions. This would be a
 great time to start taking positive steps.


Memo: What’s Behind the Downturn?.

In May, I observed in "How Quickly They Forget" that investors had returned to pro-risk
 behavior despite the lingering presence of significant macro worries. And then just three
 months later, a number of exogenous events caused the markets to undergo a significant
 decline and one of the greatest paroxysms of volatility ever seen. All of the reasons
 existed well before. Investors simply hadn't taken them to heart.

 I never cease to marvel, and complain, about the way investors flip-flop - focusing
 on just the positives at one moment and just the negatives at another - and the
 speed at which they do it. But I learned long ago not to be surprised by this
 phenomenon or expect it to stop occurring, but instead to look past the market's behavior
 and assess the underlying realities. Thus I decided to take the occasion of my summer
 vacation to write a memo parsing the recent events and touching on the outlook.

 Confluence

 Markets usually do a pretty good job of coping with problems one at a time. When one
 arises, analysts analyze and investors reach conclusions and calmly adjust their
 portfolios. But when there's a confluence of negative events, the markets can become
 overwhelmed and lose their cool. Things that might be tolerable individually combine
 into an unfathomable mess whose extent and ramifications seem beyond analysis.
 Market crises are chaotic, not orderly, and the multiplicity and simultaneity of
 contributing causes play a big part in making them so.

 That was certainly the case in the three crises we've lived through as investors in credit.
 In addition to the recession and credit crunch that marked each one, we saw:

 in 1990, the collapse of the most prominent leveraged buyouts of the 1980s; the Gulf
 War, with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the allies' response; and the government's
 crusade against high yield bonds, Drexel Burnham and Michael Milken;

 in 2002, the aftermath of 9/11, including our invasion of Afghanistan; the unraveling
 of the overbuilt fiber telecom industry; and the exposure of accounting scandals at
 Enron, WorldCom and Adelphia and the fall of Arthur Andersen; and

 in 2008, the sub-prime mortgage meltdown; the defrocking of tranching, leverage and
 derivatives as constructive forces; the outing of credit rating agencies as no more

 reliable than their models; the banks' major losses in off-balance-sheet investments;
 and, as a result of all of the above, the collapse or rescue of a number of prominent
 financial institutions and grave concern about the rest.

 It's my sense that it was the simultaneous nature of these occurrences - in addition to, or
 perhaps rather than, their force individually - that rendered the markets so incapable of
 maintaining their equanimity.

 Certainly that was the case in early August. For the first time in history, the Dow
 Industrials either rose or fell by at least 400 points four days in a row. What was it that
 sent the markets on that wild ride? I can think of a number of factors:

 rising awareness of the import of the U.S.'s fiscal deficit, and the bitterly
 disappointing display that played out in Washington as we approached the date on
 which the debt ceiling would bind,
 Standard & Poor's downgrading of U.S. government debt,
 increasing worry about Europe's ability to deal with the excessive debts of its
 peripheral countries, and thus about the health of European banks holding them,
 concern over the possibility of a double-dip recession, and
 mounting evidence that China and the rest of the emerging world are something less
 than unstoppable economic miracles.

 Importantly, we saw the onset of one of those negative feedback loops where intelligence
 is imputed to market developments. We're told the falling prices reflect problems lying
 ahead, and thus investors sell in response to the message being provided by . . . investors
 who're selling.

 Again, I think it was the collective force of these things that convinced people the world
 was a scary place. What could be worse than the convergence of a number of major
 worries whose extent, interaction and solution seem beyond comprehension?

 Washington Debt Follies

 Where can I start on this sorry subject? As described in "Down to the Wire" in late July,
 America and the world contemplated the collision of an irresistible force (the U.S.
 government's need to borrow due to its habit of spending more than it brings in) with an
 immovable object (the debt ceiling and Washington's seeming inability to reach a
 constructive solution to it).

 With control of the government divided and many legislators committed to preventing
 either tax increases or cuts in social programs, it was obvious to most level-headed
 observers that any solution would require compromise. But while it could have been a
 negotiating stance, several of the participants in the debate seemed not to attach much

 importance to reaching a solution if it required compromising on their positions. In the
 process, a disappointing number gave the impression that they didn't understand or care
 much about the significance of deficits, defaults and downgrades.

 On July 27, The New York Times ran an article on political negotiating. Its mention of
 the game of chicken reflected what was going on in Washington: "two players [drive]
 toward each other, each wanting the other to swerve. The one who does, loses. The trick
 to winning is for one player to convince the other that under no circumstances will he or
 she veer off course." One way to do that, The Times suggested, is to unscrew your car's
 steering wheel and toss it out the window. I must say I found that an accurate metaphor
 for what we were watching. While that may have been an effective tactic for winning
 the political game, however, it didn't do much to reassure onlookers hoping for a
 reasonable solution. Instead, it gave the strong impression that reason couldn't be
 counted on to prevail.

 Nevertheless, the situation played out as expected. We saw the short-term problem
 papered over; little movement toward meaningful spending cuts or revenue increases; and
 the formation of a bipartisan commission to come up with a solution to the long-term
 problems. But if the plan formulated a year ago by another panel including some of our
 most eminent former legislators couldn't gain traction, what's the likelihood a new one
 will fare any better?

 Anyhow, the markets breathed a collective sigh of relief and went back to normal when
 the can was kicked down the road. Investors were hungry for reassurance that
 Washington was up to solving the problem of deficits and debt and alleviating the
 uncertainty, but I don't think they got it. All decisions to invest - whether in factories,
 new employees or securities - require confidence that there'll be a salutary, stable
 and predictable environment. Our leaders' response to the debt crisis did nothing
 to foster one.

 Confidence was further eroded when, a few days later, Standard & Poor's announced that
 it had downgraded long-term U.S. debt from AAA to AA+, and all hell broke out. Was
 the downgrade appropriate? What did it mean? And how many of those who reacted in
 the markets really understood its significance?

 According to S&P, a triple-A debt issue means "Extremely strong ability to meet
 financial commitments. Highest rating." Certainly the U.S.'s ability to meet financial
 commitments remains "extremely strong." But is it the "highest"? And is it as high
 as it used to be, or do recent events suggest it is diminished? I find the issue hard to
 wrestle with:

 Given that the U.S. has the power to print the world's reserve currency, it doesn't
 make sense to think it will fail to pay its obligations. (Of course, if it runs the printing

 presses to pay its debts, the dollars with which it does so will likely have diminished
 purchasing power.)

 The truth is that an AA+ rating is far from meaning "default-prone." Since only a
 few percent of single-B bonds default each year on average, at worst AA+ must imply
 a probability of default of a small fraction of a percent. In fact, many potential triple-
 As opt for AA+ instead in order to be able to carry more debt. That's one reason
 S&P rates only four companies triple-A.

 Getting a little more esoteric, what does it mean for a debtor to "meet financial
 commitments"? As I mentioned in "Down to the Wire," debtors generally aren't
 expected to pay off their debts; rather, it's the normal expectation that interest will be
 paid and principal will be refinanced. Interesting, then: even triple-A doesn't
 necessarily connote an ability to extinguish one's debts.

 While credit ratings are explicitly defined as relative, relating primarily to the
 likelihood of payment, I've always thought triple-A has a connotation for most
 people that absolutely nothing can go wrong. For that matter, U.S. Treasurys
 have traditionally been described as "riskless," which sounds pretty absolute to
 me. If that's a fair description, it doesn't seem to fit the political process we've
 witnessed in the last few months.

 The events of July suggest some of those currently in control in Washington don't
 think failing to meet commitments would be a big deal. Certainly it seemed possible
 on July 31 that some of the people to whom the U.S. owed money might go unpaid
 within a few days. So, is the risk on Treasurys really non-existent?

 If the U.S. was triple-A in 2000, when it was running a surplus, its national debt was
 far smaller, and Washington functioned much more constructively, mightn't it
 deserve a lower rating today?

 Our deficits are far bigger than ever, and the commitment to do what it takes to
 reduce them seems quite weak. As I wrote in "I'd Rather be Wrong" (March 2010),
 "Everyone wants to see the deficit narrowed, but today's circumstances seem to
 prohibit both expenditure reduction and revenue increases. Everything else is on the
 table." The process of governing seems to be running less well than ever.

 The long-term outlook is particularly bleak. In "Down to the Wire" I described how
 entitlement programs endanger our fiscal future. I failed, however, to mention that
 the present value of our future unfunded obligations is estimated at $64 to $99 trillion
 depending on the source (per J.P. Morgan), a burden that dwarfs our current national
 debt of $14.3 trillion.

 So S&P and Egan-Jones downgraded U.S. debt (while Moody's and Fitch didn't). There
 was one main moving part on August 5: that's the day S&P labeled U.S. debt less safe.
 What was the upshot? A buying panic in U.S. Treasury securities, with the yield on the
 10-year note falling below 2%.

 As an aside, let's spend a minute thinking about that reaction. If there had been near
 unanimity about anything, it was that a downgrade would raise the yield demanded on
 U.S. debt. Certainly the fact that so many people could be wrong about this
 supposedly simple linkage should disabuse investors of the notion that they know
 how markets work. The expected reaction was much more logical than the one that
 actually played out: after it was labeled less safe, the yield demanded on U.S. debt
 declined markedly. I find the explanation fully worthy of Yogi Berra: the downgrade
 of Treasurys made people so worried about the elevated risk in the world that they
 ran to Treasurys for safety. So much for the supposed rationality of markets.

 The bottom line for me in all the above is that, while on an emotional basis I find the
 debt situation depressing, intellectually I believe U.S. Treasury obligations will
 prove money good. At bottom I agree with former Treasury secretary Hank Paulson:

 While the players in Washington certainly haven't performed at AAA
 level, I would certainly take U.S. Treasuries over other AAA sovereigns
 any day." (The New York Times, August 9)

 The European Version

 The problem in Europe isn't overwhelmingly different, just manifested differently. In
 the credit boom of the last forty years, debtors all around the world - nations as well
 as states and cities, consumers, home buyers and buyout companies - borrowed
 amounts that they couldn't repay now if required to do so. The key questions are
 whether the loans will be renewed, or who'll pay them off, or how they'll otherwise
 be discharged. Only the details vary from instance to instance.

 As I described in "It's Greek to Me" (July 2010), for years, especially thanks to their
 membership in the European Union, peripheral nations with weak economies and little
 fiscal discipline were able to borrow sums disproportionate to their incomes. Thus
 Greece, Portugal, Spain and others could run continuous deficits to support excessively
 generous programs with features such as retirement ages in the fifties and a thirteenth
 month of pay each year. Lenders were unconcerned about the impossibility of
 repayment, it seemed, until early 2010. But then they awoke.

 Economically stronger nations such as Germany and France, on the other hand, applied
 much greater prudence. They and their citizens and financial institutions didn't
 participate as much in the trend toward over-borrowing, and thus don't share the

 particular problems of the peripherals. But they have problems of their own, since they
 took the capital piled up by their strong economies and lent it to the profligate borrowers.
 Thus the direct problems in the strong nations relate not to unpayable debts, but to
 questionable receivables: their banks and other providers of capital are owed large sums
 lent to the governments and institutions of the peripheral nations.

 All member countries are impacted by the general uncertainty present. As in the U.S.,
 the divided, fractious nature of Europe's governing bodies will complicate the process of
 problem solving. Will the governance structure of the European Union permit a solution
 to be reached? What can be done about the weaker members? How much of the relief
 will the strong nations be expected to provide? Will the untested, loose confederation of
 the monetary union hold together or, alternatively, have to provide for the exit of the
 weaker links? Will voters in the strong nations allow their elected officials to use
 resources to support the weak ones?

 The basic problems are similar to those in the U.S. in terms of scale, novelty, and the
 difficulty of identifying solutions. How will the transition be handled from the easy-
 money environment of the past to the more restrictive one of today? Who will bear
 the burdens of excessive debt and shoulder the losses? How will the banks' bad-debt
 problem be solved and their capital rebuilt? Will the political system produce the needed
 solutions? Are the leaders up to the task? Here's how the Financial Times put it on
 August 20:

 There is no magic medicine and the best solution would be a combination
 of [several] policies, wrapped up in a show of political will that restored
 confidence to the global economy. But political will is in short supply,
 and that may be the most worrying economic sign of all.

 If markets abhor uncertainty - as we know they do - then these issues imply little in
 the way of tranquility. And when multiple problems of this nature coincide, as they
 did in early August, the result is chaos, at least until the markets become inured to
 the uncertainty and the gyrations themselves run out of energy.

 Possibility of a Double Dip

 In 2010 and early 2011, the economic reports suggested a healthy recovery. They
 contributed to confidence that things were going in the right direction, and thus to
 investors' feeling of wellbeing and willingness to bear risk. In fact, I expressed in "How
 Quickly They Forget" my belief that risk tolerance had become excessive relative to the
 fundamental outlook.

 Even when the economic reports were positive, I didn't feel they were as dynamic as in
 past recoveries. And this one was from the worst recession I've seen, which should have

 made for a strong rebound. In particular, job growth was slow and unemployment
 remained at stubbornly high levels.

 But then, concurrent with the explosion of uncertainty over debt in the U.S. and Europe,
 slower growth was reported for the second quarter and the gains of the first quarter and
 late 2010 were revised downward. All of a sudden, another contributor to the sense that
 "it's all good" had turned negative instead.

 I always hasten to point out that I am not an economist (and Oaktree doesn't have one).
 Thus I don't have a strong opinion as to whether the U.S. will relapse into a double
 dip. (I also have no idea how people reach firm conclusions on such things, other
 than as expressions of their biases and hunches.) For our purposes, it suffices that
 we have operated since the financial crisis under the assumption that the recovery
 would be sluggish, rather than V-shaped. We still feel that way. And that feeling is
 inconsistent with moving out on the risk curve or down in credit quality, investing more
 in cyclicals or taking on leverage.

 Our enthusiasm regarding the macro economy has been muted for a number of reasons,
 including:

 conviction that it was largely the growing use of credit that enabled consumption to
 grow faster than sluggish incomes over the last 20-30 years, and that in the future
 credit will not be equally available or equally employed,

 the potentially counter-stimulative effect of austerity as government spending shrinks
 and taxes rise relative to GDP, and of delevering in general on the part of over-
 indebted governments, businesses and individuals,

 concern (thus far unfounded) over the potential for rising interest rates and their
 depressant effect on the economy,

 continuing challenges regarding manufacturing competitiveness due to our status as a
 high-cost location, and

 belief that unemployment will remain a persistent problem due to the above-
 mentioned decline in manufacturing, our problems in education, and the shift to an
 information-based and more productive economy (read: fewer hours of labor per
 dollar of output).

 In addition, we mustn't ignore the part played by confidence. I think confidence is
 everything in determining the economic future. If participants in the economy believe
 things will be good in the future, they'll spend and invest and things will be good, and
 vice versa. Economic expectations are self-reinforcing in many ways, and right now

 that bodes ill. When people see nothing on TV but news of how bad things are, they
 tend to pull in their horns. Certainly the recent events haven't been helpful in this regard.

 Finally, there's no longer much confidence in the efficacy of the Fed, its chairman and its
 arsenal. Clearly confidence in Alan Greenspan and his Fed was overdone in his last
 decade (and thus contributed to the moral hazard of the period). Today the reverse seems
 to be true, but at least that means we're not burdened with unrealistically high
 expectations in this area.

 On the positive side, many companies are reporting healthy orders and profits. Further, I
 believe the likelihood or potential severity of another recession is reduced by the fact that
 economic comparisons now and in the coming months will be against non-dynamic prior
 periods, and thus relatively easy. In short, without a boom, it's harder to have a bust.

 My overall vision continues to be of an airplane rising weakly, perhaps overloaded
 or with an engine sputtering and thus having difficulty getting above "stall speed."
 Its sluggishness constitutes a drag and introduces risk, but predicting deceleration is
 going too far . . . and not necessary to convince us to remain cautious in deciding on
 our course of action.

 Emerging Markets Play Their Part

 The emerging markets' contribution to the unsettled environment is of a very different
 nature. Their economies are growing strongly and generally not over-indebted. Rather,
 here the issues stem from the juxtaposition - as often seen - of investors' high
 expectations with a new, less rosy reality.

 I've written in the past (e.g., in "Hemlines," September 2010) about the propensity of
 markets to become captivated by simple themes, like "the Internet will change the
 world," "equities are good" or "who needs bonds?" One such easy-to-swallow story line
 that prevailed over the past decade has been with regard to the "emerging market
 miracle" and, especially, the inevitability of China.

 I don't mean in the least to suggest that the outlook for China, India and the rest of the
 emerging markets is less than bright. In fact, I'm sure they'll out-grow the developed
 world over the remainder of the century. The problem, however, is that simplistic,
 mania-following investors elevated emerging markets to the pedestal of the "sure
 thing" where nothing can go wrong. And when prices incorporate unlimited virtue,
 the eventual result is bound to be disappointment, disillusionment and depreciation.
 Even favorable developments can lead to losses when they fail to measure up to
 expectations. That's been the case in the emerging markets.

 So now we see:

 concern that the emerging market economies have been over-stimulated,
 the rising inflation that occurs as a consequence,
 uncertainty over whether the monetary tightening which is taking place will result in
 a soft landing or something worse,
 questions about corruption, fraud, non-transparency and inefficiency, and
 realization - again - that their economic success isn't independent of that of the
 developed world.

 The fundamental outlook in the emerging markets is still excellent. It's just that at times
 in recent years, when problems arose in the U.S., Europe and Japan, investors turned to
 the emerging markets for investment solutions, and the view that their future would be
 "superior" morphed into "flawless." When their securities became priced for that
 perfection, the realization that they actually had feet of clay - at a time when investor
 confidence was weakened by the other things I've mentioned - took a toll on investor
 equanimity and security prices.

 Taken Together

 None of the issues described above is illusory. The U.S. is a fiscal and political mess,
 and its leaders inspire little confidence regarding their ability to effect a solution. The
 outlook in Europe is similarly murky, and the emerging markets have turned out not to be
 as foolproof as had been believed. However:

 none of these is a new development; they all existed three or six months ago, when
 the markets were sanguine,
 their scariness is due to the fact that many are relatively unprecedented, and thus the
 solutions aren't obvious or time-tested, and
 this uncertainty is among the greatest contributors to the markets' unease.

 So, as is often the case, the swing we've had is more in psychology than in
 fundamentals. The positives of June are diminished, forgotten or eclipsed, and now
 investors are preoccupied with the negatives. As usual, the truth probably lies in
 between.

 We face a new world nowadays in terms of the speed of media coverage, the vast number
 of outlets competing for people's attention, and in many cases their seeming lack of
 concern over their own partiality, volatility and non-objectivity. I have no doubt that the
 media contribute significantly to the manic swing from "it's all good" to "it's all bad,"
 with its highly unsettling effect on the markets. Emotion takes over from reason.

 Hysteria rules the day. Nobody knows what the developments mean or what to do about
 them. But that doesn't prevent investors from acting in response.

 With the strong flight to the perceived safety of Treasurys and the pronounced
 cheapening of everything else, the dearth of bargains that I bemoaned a few months
 ago is much eased. In U.S. high yield bonds, for example, the yield to worst and spread
 on the Citi High Yield Market Index went from 6.8% and 526 basis points on May 31 to
 8.3% and 719 b.p. on August 31, just three months later. As for European issuers, the
 yield and spread on the BofA Merrill Lynch Global High Yield ex. Russia Index went
 from 7.7% and 545 b.p. to 10.0% and 840 b.p. in the same period. Not only are the
 current spreads well above the historic averages, but the yields are actually quite
 reasonable in the absolute (and suitable for institutions with 8-ish actuarial assumptions
 or required returns). And what's been the response? Massive redemptions from high
 yield bond mutual funds.

 So the pattern of the last few weeks hews to the norm:

 There's a period in which the news is good, reaction is favorable, psychology is
 positive, willingness to bear risk grows, and assets move to higher prices, attracting
 additional buyers into the markets.

 Then something takes a turn for the worse and, in the most serious downturns, there is
 a confluence of negative events.

 The worrisome elements gain sway over investor psychology, and the positives are
 forgotten.

 Disillusionment replaces sanguineness: "How could I ever have put so much trust in
 the markets?"

 Money flows out of the markets rather than in; it's sellers who influence prices rather
 than buyers; and securities eventually move from dear toward cheap.

 Certainly some of these developments have taken place. Nobody waves a banner when
 assets have gotten cheap enough, but it's incumbent on investors to recognize things
 like these and react appropriately, rather than follow the herd. Thus right now I
 would be a better buyer, albeit in moderation since fundamentals still pose threats.

 * * *

 Rather than end there, as I originally thought I would, I want to add a little about the
 longer-term future. I could prepare the way by repeating my standard confession that I'm
 given more to worrying than to enthusing, but you already know that.

 What I want to say is this: the worries concerning the U.S. economic outlook enumerated
 on page seven are not limited to the current short-term cycle. I touched on most of them
 in "What Worries Me" (August 2008), "The Long View" (January 2009) and "Tell Me
 I'm Wrong" (January 2010), and my view of their importance hasn't changed. I think
 they're likely to influence the environment for years.

 I feel today's distribution of possible futures is shifted to the left - that is, generally
 less attractive - relative to the distribution that governed the late twentieth century.
 The picture in the U.S. is less positive today in terms of consumer-led growth and the
 supercharging impact of increased credit use, competitiveness and job creation, and the
 government's fiscal situation (and thus its ability to stimulate the economy).

 I think we benefited greatly in that earlier period from the luck of the draw. Things went
 about as well as they could have for the economy (despite sluggish income growth).
 Inflation was very much under control, and we benefited from steadily declining interest
 rates. We were even lucky enough to see the collapse of our great enemy, the USSR, and
 to live in a world that was generally at peace.

 It was a period in which the markets benefited from positive developments and
 overwhelmingly bullish attitudes. As my partner David Kirchheimer points out, the
 favorable underlying trends constituted a rising tide in the Buffett sense, meaning for a
 long time we didn't get a chance to see which borrowers, risk takers and financial
 innovators were swimming unclothed. The picture has become less alluring with the
 tides less favorable, and I expect only moderate improvement in that regard.

 David adds that "it took many years, trillions of dollars in credit extension, and countless
 well-intentioned but misguided policies to get us into this mess, so it's likely that under
 the best of circumstances it will take many years for the economy - and standards of
 living - to reach a new equilibrium, and for the financial markets to acclimate to a 'new
 normal' of possibly lower returns without the artificial effect of record government
 stimulus."

 I feel the prosperity we enjoyed in the final decades of the twentieth century was
 considerably better than "normal," and better than we're likely to see up ahead.
 I'm not implying a world without growth or otherwise permanently negative. Just
 one without the prosperity, dynamism or positive feelings of past decades. In
 addition, the newness of the macro picture and some of the problems - and the opacity of
 the solutions - certainly make it less clear in which direction we'll go.

 It's my belief that things went better in the late twentieth century than we have reason to
 expect in the years ahead. We could get lucky again, of course, but it would be
 downright imprudent to make investments predicated on that assumption. Thus at
 Oaktree we're making allowance for things that may go less well than they did in
 past periods. Cheapness provides a margin of safety today, but only so much.
 We're moving forward, but cautiously.


Memo: It’s All Very Taxing.

The issue is simple: the U.S. government generally spends more than it brings in . . . and
 recently, a lot more. For years Congress was willing to serially raise the federal debt
 ceiling and monetize the deficit. But this past summer, some legislators balked. When
 the early August deadline for an increase in the ceiling arrived, our elected officials
 kicked the can down the road, but less far than usual. They created a Congressional
 supercommittee with unprecedented power to propose solutions, and they designed
 automatic spending cuts in case no proposal won approval.

 With the committee working under a November 23 deadline to find ways to reduce the
 federal deficit by $1 trillion-plus over the next decade, and with a presidential election
 less than a year away, the subject of taxes is all over the headlines and likely to remain
 there. Thus I've decided to provide a background piece on the issues.

 What form will the deficit-cutting action take? In fact, the possibilities fall into only four
 categories:

 cut discretionary spending,
 reduce expenditures on entitlements,
 cut waste and fraud, or
 increase tax revenues.

 Given the magnitude of the problem, the limited number of potential solutions, and the
 differences between the parties on the subject, there's already debate regarding the fourth
 of those listed above. Democrats generally feel tax increases should be part of any
 solution, and Republicans often insist that while they're open to overhauling the tax code,
 total taxes must not rise.

 What's Fair is Fair

 This memo got its start as an excuse for me to write about one of my greatest pet peeves:
 the so-called "fair share."

 Ask your typical Democrat or liberal about the idea of increasing taxes on upper-bracket
 earners, and what will they say? In my experience, the answer's always the same:
 "We're not out to soak the rich. We just want them to pay their fair share." We've
 seen it over and over for years. For example:

 Were [the politicians levying taxes on Americans] seeking to redistribute
 wealth, to recast society along more egalitarian lines? Or were they simply
 trying to ensure that rich people paid their "fair share"? The answer,
 predictably, is both. . . .

 If poor and middle class Americans were going to be asked [by President
 Roosevelt], of necessity, to shoulder much of the fiscal burden, then they
 needed assurance the rich were paying their share. . . .

 No one made the case more succinctly than Rep. Cordell Hull, legislative
 father of the 1913 income tax. "I have no disposition to tax wealth
 unnecessarily or unjustly," he explained in his memoirs. "But I do believe
 that the wealth of the country should bear its just share of the burden of
 taxation and that it should not be permitted to shirk that duty."

 ("Soaking the Wealthy: An American Tradition" The Wall Street Journal,

 The rhetoric remained unchanged in the late twentieth century:

 "We will lower the tax burden on middle class Americans," [Bill Clinton]
 pledged in 1992, "by asking the very wealthy to pay their fair share."
 ("The Middle-Class Tax Trap" The New York Times, April 17, 2011)

 More recently, President Obama carried on the tradition.

 I will veto any bill that changes benefits for those who rely on Medicare
 but does not raise serious revenues by asking the wealthiest Americans or
 biggest corporations to pay their fair share. (The New York Times,

 And here's another reference from just a month ago:

 In proposing a 5 percent surtax on incomes of more than $1 million a year
 to pay for job-creation measures sought by President Obama, Senate
 Democratic leaders on Wednesday escalated efforts to strike a more
 populist tone and to draw Republicans into a confrontation over how much
 affluent Americans should pay to help others cope with a struggling
 economy. . . .

 "It's interesting to note that independents, Democrats and Republicans and
 even the Tea Party agree it's time for millionaires and billionaires to pay
 their fair share of taxes," [Senate Majority Leader] Reid said Wednesday.

 (The New York Times, October 6, 2011)

 But what is the fair share? How is it to be determined, and by whom? When
 Senator Reid says, "it's time for millionaires and billionaires to pay their fair
 share," he implies they haven't been doing so thus far. How does he know? What's
 the standard? If there's an objective standard for one's fair share, why does it only
 seem to be those from the left side of the political spectrum who say it's not being paid?
 And if there isn't an objective standard, how can the fair share be determined? The
 truth is, fairness is almost entirely in the eye of the beholder, and "get them to pay
 their fair share" seems like just another way to say "raise their taxes."

 There's probably only one element of fairness that's beyond discussion: those with
 higher incomes should pay more in taxes. After that, everything is up for grabs.

 For example, we have a progressive system of taxation, meaning that higher
 earners don't merely pay more in terms of dollars; they generally pay a higher
 percentage of their incomes in taxes. Most people agree that this is fair. But is it?
 Why should success be penalized through greater taxation? And if the tax rate for
 those who earn more should be higher, how much higher? Should the top
 marginal tax rate be double that applicable to lower-income taxpayers? Triple?
 What's fair?

 Are some forms of income more desirable to society and thus deserving of
 taxation at lower rates?

 And should we encourage certain expenditures by making them deductible from
 taxable income?

 The fairness of all of these things is subject to discussion and disagreement. They come
 under the heading of tax policy.

 Is Taxation Progressive? Progressive Enough?

 Under the U.S. system, people in higher income brackets pay tax at higher rates.
 (However, Mark Twain said, "All generalizations, including this one, are false." For an
 exception to the generalization above, see the discussion of the "Buffett Rule" on page 5.)
 In large part, the question of fairness primarily surrounds whether the higher rates
 are high enough.

 Talk about "the eye of the beholder." There's evidence on both sides of this debate:

 The top 1% of U.S. taxpayers pay 38% of all individual federal taxes. The top
 10% pay 70% of all taxes, the top 25% pay 86%, and the top 50% pay 97%.

 That leaves the bottom 50% of all taxpayers paying only 3% of the total.

 About half of Americans pay no federal income tax, and almost 25% pay no
 federal taxes at all.

 The average federal income tax rate for the top 1% of Americans is 23% (and for
 the top half it's 14%), while the average rate for the bottom half is 3%.

 Notwithstanding the rhetoric, there's no doubt about the fact that America's top earners
 are taxed more heavily than the rest. On the other hand, they pay at lower rates than they
 used to (when I was a boy the top marginal rate was 94%), and it seems progressivity has
 declined.

 . . . the effective federal tax rate, including payroll taxes, for the wealthiest
 0.01 percent of earners fell to 31.5 percent in 2005, from 42.9 percent in
 1979 [for a decline of 26.6%], according to data from the Congressional
 Budget Office. Over the same time, effective rates for taxpayers in the
 center of the range fell to 14.2 percent, a decrease of just 4 percentage
 points [or 22.0%]. (The New York Times, September 21, 2011)

 Total revenues from income taxes have declined in the U.S. - they "are at a historical low
 of 15.3 per cent of the gross domestic product, compared with a postwar average of 18.5
 per cent" (Financial Times, September 25) - and they've declined more for top earners
 than for the rest. This is because of both specific rate cuts that have been enacted and the
 fact that the rates applied to dividends and capital gains - which clearly flow more to
 people in the upper income brackets - have declined relative to the rates on salaries and
 wages.

 On average, higher earners absolutely do pay a higher percentage than those who
 earn less. But the decision as to whether the differential is just right, too little or too
 great is highly subjective and certainly a valid topic for debate.

 Righteous Income

 In the U.S., different types of income are taxed at different rates, suggesting some are
 considered more virtuous than others. For example, profits on investment assets held for
 more than a year, so-called "long-term capital gains," are taxed less than "ordinary
 income" such as salaries and interest. This has been the case for so long that we consider
 it the norm, and what we're used to often becomes the baseline for "fairness."

 Long-term capital gains are taxed at reduced rates because of a judgment that long-term
 investment in things like securities, companies and real estate is beneficial for the
 economy and should be encouraged. Right now, the top tax rate on long-term investment
 profit is less than half that on short-term gains and ordinary income. And in recent years,
 the taxes on dividends have been reduced to similar levels, in part to mitigate double
 taxation of corporate profits but also because of a judgment that the equity investments

 that give rise to dividends are good for our society.

 Is it appropriate to tax profits on long-term investments at rates below those on other
 forms of income? Certainly we should encourage investment, but there's no consensus
 that the tax code is the place to do it. Some foreign jurisdictions don't tax capital gains at
 all, while others tax them at the same rate as all other income.

 What about interest? Why are dividends taxed at preferential rates and interest at
 ordinary rates? The explanation may lie in the fact that interest is deductible for
 corporations, while dividends aren't. Interest is paid out of pretax income, while in
 theory dividends are paid out of after-tax income - although the existence of corporate
 deductions and credits means dividends may, in fact, be paid out of income that hasn't
 been taxed by the U.S. Alternatively, the difference in tax treatment may be the result of
 a desire to encourage investment in "risky" equities rather than "safe" debt. But some
 companies' dividends are no doubt safer than some other companies' interest payments,
 so this distinction is questionable. If the goal is to encourage risk bearing, is dividend
 versus interest the right criterion?

 While on the subject of gains from investments, it's interesting to note that, not long ago,
 dividends were included with interest under the rubric "unearned income." This
 pejorative phrase implied that income on capital, not requiring labor, was less virtuous
 than that stemming from labor, so-called "earned income." Thus unearned income -
 primarily dividends and interest - was taxed more heavily than wages.

 But now things have turned 180 degrees, and returns on capital are taxed at lower rates
 than wages. It's worth noting that the Democrats - commonly considered the party of
 labor - controlled the government for much of the period 1928 to 1980, when earned
 income was favored. On the other hand, the Republicans - the party of those with capital
 to invest - have been in control more of the time since 1980, and the taxation of returns
 on capital has declined in relative terms. The definition of virtuous income that should
 be encouraged through lower taxes clearly is subjective, impermanent and subject
 to change with the winds of politics.

 One debate that has arisen recently surrounds the so-called "Buffett Rule." For
 the last few years, Warren Buffett has been speaking about the fact that he pays a
 smaller percentage of his income in taxes than does his secretary. Presumably this
 is because his income consists primarily of long-term capital gains and very little
 of salary, bonus and interest.

 (As an aside, it should be noted that Buffett's lower tax rate, while not unique, is far from
 the norm. According to The New York Times of September 24, "The number of people
 who fall under the Buffett Rule is quite small, only 60,000" out of 450,000 taxpayers who
 make over $1 million. "And the amount of revenue that would be generated [by the
 Buffett Rule] over the next 10 years is equally small - just $13 billion. . . .")

 Buffett's tax status is a function of policy choices made by the people who
 wrote our tax laws. According to The New York Times of September 21,
 "President Obama's proposal for a new tax on millionaires . . . would counteract
 decades of tax reductions for most Americans that have given the wealthy the
 most benefit. . . ." Do we consider these decisions appropriate in principle and
 Buffett's just an extreme case? Or do we want to change things so returns on
 capital are less favored and big earners can never pay overall taxes at lower rates
 than those who earn less? (And, as an aside, are all long-term profits truly
 beneficial to society? How, for instance, does society benefit when someone buys
 a bar of gold?)

 Deductions, Loopholes and Tax Incentives

 Speaking of gold, in "All That Glitters" on that subject, I quoted from a speech by
 Mississippi state legislator "Soggy" Sweat that showed his ability to simultaneously
 praise and condemn whiskey with equal conviction. Outdoing Soggy, depending on
 who's talking, Washington politicos use the three very different terms above to describe
 the same thing: offsets to taxable income.

 The drafters called them deductions: provisions that reduce the net income on which
 taxes are levied. Critics call them loopholes, suggesting there's something underhanded
 about those provisions. And politicians use the laudatory-sounding term tax incentives
 to describe tax code provisions that reduce tax revenues in order to encourage certain
 behavior. It all depends on your point of view.

 Let's take a look at one of the most popular deductions: interest on mortgages. For
 as long as I can remember, interest on home mortgages has been treated as a desirable
 expenditure that should be encouraged. Because home ownership is considered part of
 the American dream, the tax code subsidizes it by reducing the after-tax cost for those
 who borrow to buy homes (and are able to itemize rather than take the standard
 deduction). While everything else may be arguable, certainly this seems fair. But is it?

 Are homeowners more virtuous than renters? If mortgage interest is deductible
 but rent isn't, we're requiring renters to subsidize owners. Is that appropriate?

 On average, homeowners are from the middle and upper income brackets. Is it
 fair that poorer renters provide a benefit for richer owners?

 And is it desirable that those able to buy more expensive homes should get more
 of a subsidy than those consigned to cheaper ones?

 As with the taxation of dividends, judgments on these matters change over time. Until
 1987, there was no limit on the amount of mortgage interest that could be deducted. If
 you could afford to own ten homes with multiple million-dollar mortgages on each one,

 taxpayers would collectively share the cost by reducing your income taxes due. Today
 interest is deductible on only a maximum of $1.1 million of debt, and only on first and
 second mortgages, and only on a primary residence and a second home. So the tax
 treatment of owners of many homes and more expensive homes has become less
 generous. But it's still better than that of renters. Is that proper?

 What about the tax deductibility of charitable donations? As I travel the world
 visiting with clients, I see that two things about the U.S. are quite uncommon: (a)
 Americans give a lot of money to charity and (b) donations to charity are deductible in
 calculating taxable income. Everyone tells me the latter is the main reason for the
 former. In particular, these things are part of the explanation for the existence of the
 many private, non-state-supported colleges and universities in the U.S., the best of which
 are so good at least in part because of their significant donor-provided endowments. For
 example, Harvard and Yale are only half as old as England's Oxford and Cambridge, but
 they benefit from endowments that are far larger.

 Part of this is true because legislators decided at some point to subsidize non-profits by
 encouraging contributions through the tax code. That's certainly understandable. And
 yet, changes were made in recent years to limit upper-bracket taxpayers' use of
 deductions in order to ensure that they pay some minimum tax rate.

 What about the unevenness of the subsidy? The cost of giving $1 to charity is reduced by
 the amount of taxes it saves the donor, which is equal to $1 times the person's tax rate.
 So today, speaking simplistically, it costs a top-bracket taxpayer 65 cents to give a dollar
 to charity, while it costs a bottom-bracket taxpayer 85 cents. Is that fair? Should the
 bigger earner receive a greater reward for a dollar of philanthropy than someone who can
 afford it less easily? And should those who aren't inclined to give to charity be required
 to subsidize those who are?

 Finally, what about state and local taxes, the third of the significant deductions?
 Here tax deductibility isn't due to a decision to encourage people to pay non-federal
 taxes, but rather to cushion the effect of being taxed in multiple jurisdictions. Texas,
 Florida and five other states have no personal income tax, California has a heavy one, and
 someone living in Manhattan pays tax to both New York State and New York City.
 Deductibility on the federal tax return somewhat evens out the burden and ensures that
 (a) the states get first crack at taxing income and (b) the federal government can only tax
 what's left, in line with federalist principles.

 This raises a number of questions. Is the deductibility of state and local taxes fair? As
 with other deductions, the key question is "fair to whom?" Some people pay more state
 and local taxes than others, meaning they get greater deductions than others. As a result,
 while a person with a given income who lives in a high-tax state pays higher total taxes,
 he or she pays less federal tax than someone in a low-tax state. Is that fair?

 Further, what all of this means is that by providing more benefits to its residents (or at
 least spending more money, whether beneficially or not), a high-tax state creates a
 deduction for its residents and thus reduces the federal government's total tax take. Is
 this right? Should the federal government subsidize spending on the part of high-tax
 states? That is, should residents in low-tax states bear part of the expenses of high-tax
 states? There's nothing simple about these matters.

 While the source of an exemption rather than a deduction, what about interest on
 "municipal bonds" issued by states, counties, cities and local agencies. This is exempt
 from federal taxation, under the legal doctrine that the federal government mustn't tax the
 operations of the states. ("The power to tax is the power to destroy," one of our great
 Supreme Court decisions held.) But here again, we're talking about a federal benefit (in
 the form of a lower cost of capital) for the biggest-spending local governments and their
 citizens, and a tax break for people who lend to them.

 And what about property taxes? These are deductible without limitation. Thus the owner
 of a mansion - or ten mansions - receives more of a tax benefit than a low-income
 earner. And it's another subsidy for homeowners versus renters. Is this right, or should it
 be changed?

 To date, it has been deemed fair for state and local income tax to be deductible on federal
 tax returns. But is this immutable? Sales tax used to be deductible, too (meaning the
 buyer of a Rolls Royce got assistance from the federal government). Now it's not. More
 fair?

 What if the deduction for state and local taxes and the exemption for muni interest were
 ended? This would increase the cost of financing for state and local governments and
 most impact the highest-spending states, potentially requiring higher taxes causing people
 to move away. This would reduce those states' revenues and require them to raise taxes
 further (and drive away still more taxpayers) in a painful cycle. And are those states
 profligate or just burdened (like California by a substantial low-income population) or
 natural-resource-poor (lacking Texas's oil)?

 So even in "small" matters like the tax deductibility of mortgage interest, charitable
 donations, and state and local taxes, there are lots of difficult questions. While on their
 face the deductions seem fair to homeowners, philanthropists and residents of high-tax
 states, they're simultaneously penalizing renters, non-donors and residents of low-tax
 states (as well as taxpayers in low tax brackets and those without enough deductions to
 itemize).

 How about the biggest exclusions of all: employer-provided health care and the deferral
 of taxation of contributions to pension plans? In both cases, those receiving these
 employer-paid benefits enjoy a substantial benefit not shared by those not fortunate
 enough to participate. For instance, is it fair that many better-paid workers get thousands

 of dollars a year in untaxed health-care benefits, while other workers enjoy no such
 subsidy?

 Fairness turns out to be quite an elusive concept.

 Reasons for Increasing Taxes

 As U.S. leaders wrestle to reduce the budget deficit in the coming months and years,
 spending cuts are a certainty. But the question of whether taxes should be increased is
 sure to be hotly debated. A number of justifications for doing so are advanced:

 Some people want wealth to be redistributed throughout society by taxing the rich
 and giving to the poor. They want the government to do more for those who are
 less fortunate (or less able), and that means having the rest pay for it.

 There's an argument that for the deficit solution to be equitable, all citizens
 should contribute to it. Though some government spending benefits all citizens
 alike, such as national defense, national parks and the administration of justice,
 much spending disproportionately benefits lower earners, in the form of public
 education and transportation (which are supported by the federal government),
 unemployment insurance, food stamps, Medicare and Medicaid, etc. Thus the
 effect of the coming spending cuts will fall more heavily on the poor. Some argue
 that since they receive less in benefits and are therefore less likely to experience
 their loss, the wealthy should share the burden of reducing the deficit through
 increased tax payments.

 As opposed to the ideological arguments reviewed above, tax increases are among
 the limited number of possible contributors to deficit reduction listed on page 1.
 Thus, in the simplest terms, we can cut more from the deficit if we tax more (all
 else being equal).

 The ultimate practical point is that spending cuts alone won't do much to
 eliminate the deficit.

 Viewed another way, promises of entitlements have been in place for decades,
 people have relied on them, and those promises have to be kept. This is clearly
 impossible without increased taxes and/or exploding deficits.

 Is redistribution a valid goal? To some people, it is part of the process of helping every
 citizen in the "pursuit of happiness." To others, it's akin to socialism and contrary to the
 American ethic in which rewards follow ability and hard work.

 Should everyone contribute to deficit reduction, including bigger earners through
 the biggest tax increases? Or should the savings come primarily through sacrifices

 on the part of those who to date have been the primary beneficiaries of excessive
 government spending? I have no doubt that we'll see fireworks on these topics.

 Reasons for Not Increasing Taxes (or for Lowering Them)

 Before concluding that the above points are persuasive, you should consider the equally
 numerous arguments to the contrary.

 Many believe our massive deficit stems from a government (and an entrenched
 army of government employees) willing and able to spend all available cash (and
 more). A bureaucracy will always find uses - many of them wasteful - for
 available revenues. Thus the only solution is to "starve the beast": only tax cuts
 and restraints on borrowing will force the government to limit spending.

 It is argued that by decreasing the after-tax proceeds from a dollar earned, tax
 increases reduce people's incentive to work, and thus cut into a nation's overall
 productivity. From 1974 to 1979, Britain's top marginal rate was 83% (although
 with a 15% surcharge on interest and dividends, it could rise to 98%). I
 remember reading about a banker who took time off without pay to paint his
 house. Society benefits when each of us does the things we're best at. But if a
 banker who earns $20,000 a month only gets to keep $3,400, he's better off
 forgoing a month's salary to avoid paying a painter who gets $5,000 a month.

 Research into the "elasticity of taxable income" (ETI) shows that "when marginal
 tax rates go up, the amount of reported incomes goes down," suggesting higher
 taxes do reduce productivity. (The Wall Street Journal, March 30, 2010). Of
 course, it's also possible that when rates go up, the incentives for failing to report
 income also go up. Thus part of the ETI effect could come from under-reporting,
 as opposed to reduced effort.

 Taking the above a step further, the "Laffer curve," named after economist and
 presidential adviser Arthur Laffer, posits that by discouraging work (and thus
 reducing incomes), raising income tax rates actually reduces income tax
 collections. Thus, by increasing taxable income, rate reductions bring revenue
 gains.

 Last but especially timely is the classic Keynesian argument that raising taxes and
 thus reducing after-tax incomes shouldn't be done at a time when the economy is
 weak and spending should be encouraged, not inhibited.

 For me the bottom line - the real reason why many people don't want rates to go up - is
 that they don't want to pay more taxes. I think people tend to "vote their pocketbooks,"
 meaning many people with incomes to tax will vote for the candidate who promises
 lower taxes. But the economic theories discussed above certainly lend validity and

 even nobility to the pursuit of higher after-tax income . . . and the fact that their
 supporters are self-interested doesn't make them wrong. Finally, for whichever
 reason, a good portion of the electorate buys these arguments. And The New York Times
 reported on November 2 that "Americans for Tax Reform, a taxpayer advocacy group . . .
 says that 41 senators and more than 235 House members have pledged in writing to
 oppose all tax increases."

 Topics in the News - Income Inequality

 One of the outstanding characteristics of the U.S. economy at this time is the rising
 dispersion between incomes. The percentage of total income going to higher earners has
 been increasing dramatically, whether because of (a) the rising importance of education
 and technological literacy or (b) the movement of work offshore, the declining
 availability of blue-collar jobs and the reduced power of private-sector unions to garner
 wage gains. And given the pattern of tax cuts and the special treatment given to income
 on capital, the tax system has magnified the divergence.

 A recent report from the Congressional Budget Office provided dramatic evidence of the
 divergent trends in income. It outlined the percentage gain in average inflation-adjusted
 after-tax income of various income groups between 1979 and 2007:

 According to the CBO:

 The share of income going to higher-income households rose, while the
 share going to lower-income households fell.

 The top fifth of the population saw a 10-percentage-point increase
 in their share of after-tax income.

 Most of that growth went to the top 1 percent of the population.

 All other [quintile] groups saw their shares decline by 2 to 3
 percentage points.

 An October 26 article in The New York Times reported the following conclusions:

 . . . the report said government policy has become less redistributive since
 the late 1970s, doing less to reduce the concentration of income.

 "The equalizing effect of federal taxes was smaller" in 2007 than in 1979,
 as "the composition of federal revenues shifted away from progressive
 income taxes to less-progressive payroll taxes," the budget office said.

 Also, it said, federal benefit payments are doing less to even out the
 distribution of income, as a growing share of benefits, like Social Security,
 goes to older Americans, regardless of their income. . . .

 Also cited as factors contributing to the rapid growth of income at the top
 [in addition to federal tax and spending policies] were the structure of
 executive compensation; high salaries for some "superstars" in sports and
 the arts; the increasing size of the financial services industry; and the
 growing role of capital gains, which go disproportionately to higher-
 income households.

 The implications for tax discussions are obvious. Upper earners have moved further
 ahead relative to lower earners, and tax policies have contributed to this trend. For those
 who think progressivity should be bolstered, income should be redistributed, and
 those most able to pay should contribute more heavily to solving the deficit problem,
 upper-bracket earners make a most attractive target.

 Topics in the News - The Sputtering Economy

 In early 2011, there was a growing consensus that the U.S. economy was on an upward
 trajectory - that recovery had taken hold. Reported growth in GDP was accelerating.
 Orders, sales and profits were strong. Cash was piling up in corporate coffers. The Fed
 gave increased thought to increasing interest rates to cool off the economy and prevent
 the rekindling of inflation.

 But in the summer it was reported that the economy had cooled, and earlier estimates of
 GDP were revised downward. A possible double-dip recession became the topic of the
 day. At the same time, an unseemly political confrontation regarding the U.S. federal
 debt ceiling exposed a flawed, unconstructive political system at work; produced a
 downgrade of long-term Treasury debt on the part of Standard & Poor's; seemed to take
 us to the brink of a default; and sapped confidence at all levels.

 Despite the economy's weakness, further government aid for the economy has been
 rendered untenable by widespread negative feelings about the stimulus programs of
 2007-08 and the popular view that the government took care of Wall Street but not Main
 Street, combined with the nearness of the next presidential election. Especially with
 stimulus unlikely, government actions that discourage growth should be viewed
 skeptically.

 In the U.S. - just like in Greece and elsewhere in Europe - the answer to problems of
 excessive deficit and debt can be summed up in one word: austerity. Everyone's after
 debtor nations to practice austerity; that is, to spend less and tax more. The problem is
 that such behavior will reduce citizens' incomes, discourage consumer spending and slow
 or reverse economic growth. While on paper austerity will cut deficits, it may actually
 add to them by reducing government tax collections. In this way, it would necessitate
 further borrowing.

 There's no doubt that, along with spending cuts, tax increases would have a
 detrimental impact on the prospects for economic recovery. Thus even people who
 are open to tax increases may not want them to be effective until the economy is out
 of danger. As the Financial Times put it on October 29, "Many households are so badly
 overleveraged that a balanced federal budget would ruin them."

 But our economic problems aren't just cyclical. There are worrisome secular trends,
 many surrounding the scarcity of new jobs, the movement of manufacturing overseas,
 and the low level of business investment in the U.S. The best cure for our cyclical and
 secular difficulties would be growth based on industrial expansion. This would put
 people to work, support increases in spending, reinvigorate the housing sector, increase
 tax revenues and shrink the deficit. But for this to happen, we need (a) tax rates that
 allow successful entrepreneurs to retain a substantial percentage of the resulting
 profits and (b) confidence that the tax system won't be made more confiscatory
 after they've made their investments. At the present time, the latter, in particular,
 is very much lacking.

 Topics in the News - Flat Tax

 It's interesting to note that writers of tax law have two main routes to a given revenue
 total: low rates without deductions, exemptions and credits, or high rates with them. To
 date they have chosen the latter course. An article in The Wall Street Journal of January
 29, 2011 marked down this choice to pure politics:

 Why did [Roosevelt's high tax rates] last so long . . . beginning their long
 steady decline only during the Kennedy administration? . . . In part to
 fund the Korean conflict and the Cold War, but also to grease the skids of
 modern politics. Lawmakers were able to blunt the effect of high statutory
 rates by handing out tax preferences to their friends, constituents and
 contributors. Steep rates preserved the appearance of progressivity (and,
 to be fair, some of the reality), while supplying politicians with their stock
 in trade: favors.

 There are periodic calls for lower "flat" income tax rates and the elimination of
 deductions and other wrinkles, and we are hearing them today. The main goal is tax
 simplification. I commend this. (I have to admit that I, with my MBA in accounting,
 stopped being able to understand my own tax return decades ago.) But of course we

 cannot convert to a flat tax system without altering people's relative taxes. A
 change would require sweeping policy decisions.

 Flat tax proposals are often accompanied by calls for a national sales, consumption or
 "value added" tax on spending, such as many other nations have. The problem here is
 that those with low incomes spend most or all of their earnings on life's necessities, and
 as incomes rise, people gain the possibility of spending less of their incomes and saving
 more. Thus sales taxes tend to take a higher percentage of income the lower one's
 income. That's why, in contrast with progressivity, sales taxes are described as
 "regressive."

 Last month, Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain announced his "9-9-9 plan,"
 which features a flat 9% income tax rate, 9% national sales tax and 9% business tax.
 Let's take a look at it. The Tax Policy Center is a non-partisan joint venture of the Urban
 Institute and Brookings Institution. The St. Petersburg Times's politifact.com
 summarized the results of the TPC's analysis as follows: "83.8 percent of tax filers would
 get a tax increase . . . compared with current tax policy. On the other hand, most of the
 tax filers who make more than $1 million would get a tax cut . . . about 95.4 percent of
 this high income group."

 Would it be right to make poor people pay income tax at the same rate as rich
 people and pay a higher percentage of their incomes in a national sales tax?
 Anything's fair game, I guess, but if the TPC's analysis is correct, this plan would
 represent a step away from progressivity and further skew after-tax income toward the
 wealthy. Yet we're likely to hear a lot more about flat tax during the coming campaign.
 When confronted with complex problems, people often welcome simple solutions.

 Topics in the News - Political Posturing

 A Democratic politician I know decided not to run for president in 2008 because he
 expected a rising tide of populist rhetoric to be required. He was right: classist speech
 rose substantially. And the rise continues unabated.

 Democrats tend to lean toward bigger entitlement programs, greater governmental
 involvement in the economy, deficit spending, progressive taxation and income
 redistribution. These things are in contrast to Republicans' averred traditions of small
 government, individual self-sufficiency, free markets, balanced budgets and tax
 reduction. At the present time, with the economy performing poorly, Democrats are glad
 to describe Republicans' laissez faire policies as having contributed to joblessness and
 economic hardship. With difficulty more prevalent than prosperity today, populism -
 appealing to disadvantaged economic classes based on claimed inequities - represents a
 compelling brand of politics.

 Thus in recent months we've increasingly heard Democratic politicians sneer at
 "millionaires and billionaires" (see Senator Reid on page 2), an epithet aimed at a group
 that's supposedly been getting away with something. (In the past, I seem to recall, it was
 instead a group most people wanted to be part of.) To date, the preferred Republican
 label for people with money has been "job creators," although this line of defense may be
 tough to maintain in the current climate.

 The Financial Times of October 29 carried an article headlined "Obama takes high-risk
 stance against the rich." It described a decision to emulate Roosevelt's Depression-era
 rhetoric and point an accusing finger at the Republicans as the party of wealth.

 Throwing out the standard presidential playbook dictating an aspirational
 approach to centrist voters, the White House is cementing a message that
 strikes at wealth and privilege.

 "There is surging sentiment among voters that the economy is weighted
 towards the wealthy," said a senior White House official.

 The White House strategy will make the 2012 election a generational test
 of the Republican push of the last three decades for cutting taxes, in ways
 their critics say have been constantly skewed towards the highest earners.

 However, the article goes on to say Republicans may respond in kind to this tactic,
 joining in support of the common man rather than standing up for wealthier supporters:

 . . . Republicans are tweaking their public message, with the hardline
 [H]ouse majority leader, Eric Cantor, recently acknowledging the need to
 address the rich-poor gap.

 Mitt Romney, the frontrunner in the race to challenge Barack Obama in
 2012, has taken to saying that he is standing up for the "middle class"
 because the rich "can look after themselves."

 With candidates in both parties competing to sound less pro-wealth, top earners and
 their supportive tax policies should expect to be rhetorical targets in the coming
 election. Whether this will extend to Republican candidates dropping their
 resistance to tax increases remains to be seen.

 The Ultimate Worry: Tyranny of the Majority

 The elements that contributed importantly to America's success included economic
 aspiration, upward mobility and a tax system that encouraged labor and risk-taking. In
 short, we all could get rich. As a result, both those with money and those hoping to
 make money were attracted to the idea of low taxes. This made tax reduction a very
 popular theme over the last few decades.

 But when people without money start to believe they can't make money, there's
 little to keep them from taking it from those who have it. This represents a threat
 to our way of life.

 As I've written before, I was very impressed when, as a young man, I heard an interesting
 explanation for America's economic progress relative to Great Britain: "When the worker
 in Britain sees the boss drive out of the factory in his Rolls Royce, he says 'I'd like to put
 a bomb under that car.' When the worker in America sees the boss drive out of the
 factory in his Cadillac, he says 'I'd like to have a car like that someday.' " This tale says
 a lot about how we achieved our success . . . and also about what we'd better retain if we
 want to keep it.

 The truth is, in a democracy, the lower-earning majority is perfectly capable of voting to
 confiscate the wealth of the minority. A lot of people have written about this and
 associated threats to our system:

 "If Sparta and Rome perished," asked Rousseau in his Social Contract,
 "how can any state hope to live forever? The Body Politick, like the body
 of a man, begins to die as soon as it is born; it contains the seeds of its
 own destruction. (Financial Times, October 29)

 "When men get in the habit of helping themselves to the property of
 others," warned the New York Times in 1909, "they are not easily cured
 of it." (The Wall Street Journal, January 29, 2011)

 Some people regard private enterprise as a predatory tiger to be shot.
 Others look on it as a cow they can milk. Not enough people see it as a
 healthy horse, pulling a sturdy wagon. (Winston Churchill)

 As Margaret Thatcher famously said, the problem with socialism is that
 sooner or later "you run out of other people's money." (New York Post,

 The risk is exacerbated today by the fact (as noted earlier) that about half of all
 Americans pay no federal income tax. This makes me wonder whether our democracy
 can make good decisions about taxation when half the people are outside the system.

 Obviously, it's tempting to many to increase taxes on the rich, seeing it as a harmless way
 to enhance the welfare of the many at a small cost to the few. But the damage to the
 U.S.'s success machinery could vastly outweigh the sums confiscated from those who are
 targeted. The "fair share" taken from upper bracket earners has to be kept as small
 as possible if the tax system is to benefit all of our society. The coming debate over
 tax increases will be very important in this regard.

 There can be no easy solution. Social programs and tax policies have been put in place
 that will combine with demographic and income trends to create challenging conditions.
 "The Middle-Class Tax Trap" (The New York Times, April 17, 2011) outlined the
 consequences:

 [Consider] the "current law baseline," a Congressional Budget Office
 projection in which the Bush-era tax rates aren't renewed in 2012, the
 Alternative Minimum Tax (which is supposed to hit only the rich but
 increasingly bites into middle-class paychecks) isn't indexed for inflation,
 and Medicare payments to doctors are slashed 20%.

 With these changes, the deficit drops away in the next 10 years, and more
 important, it stays manageably low for the decades after that. . . .

 This is how the "current law baseline" cuts the deficit: Thanks to inflation
 and bracket creep, its tax code generally subjects more and more
 Americans to rates that now fall only on the wealthy.

 Today, for instance, a family of four making the median income . . . pays
 15% in federal taxes. By 2035, under the C.B.O. projection, payroll and
 income taxes would claim 25% of that family's income. The marginal tax
 rate on labor would rise from 29% to 38%. Federal tax revenue, which
 has averaged 18% of G.D.P. since World War II, would hit 23% by the
 2030s and climb ever higher after that.

 Such unprecedented levels of taxation would throw up hurdles to
 entrepreneurship, family formation and upward mobility. . . .

 They could have ugly political consequences as well. Historically, the
 most successful welfare states (think Scandinavia) have depended on
 ethnic solidarity to sustain their tax-and-transfer programs. But the
 working-age America of the future will be far more diverse than the
 retired cohort it's laboring to support. Asking a population that's
 increasingly brown and beige to accept punishing tax rates while white
 seniors receive roughly $3 in benefits for every dollar they paid in (the
 projected ratio in the 2030s) promises to polarize the country along racial
 as well as generational lines.

 The Republican vision for entitlement reform, President Obama said
 last week, would lead to a "fundamentally different America" than
 the one we inhabit today. He's right: asking the elderly to pay more
 for their health care, as [Representative] Paul Ryan proposes to do,
 would transform the American social contract, and cause no small
 amount of pain.

 But what Obama doesn't acknowledge is that the alternative path
 could lead to a different country as well - a more stagnant and
 balkanized society, in which our promise to the elderly crowds out the
 fundamental promise of America itself. (Emphasis added)

 Will we keep the promise of entitlement programs or cut them back? Given the
 prominence of entitlements in the U.S. budget, in large part it comes down to that.

 Over the last 80 years, politicians in the U.S. created entitlement programs that we cannot
 afford. Likewise, to varying degrees citizens throughout the developed world have been
 given promises their governments can't keep. That a day of reckoning would arrive is
 not news - credible observers have warned of our current problems for decades - but few
 politicians have been willing to fall on the sword of unpopular solutions.

 Whatever action is taken now, it will not be pain-free. The unpayable debts run up
 in the past will have to be dealt with. And as for the future, there are only three
 possibilities: the promises will have to be scaled back, the tax burden will have to
 grow, and/or the deficits will have to be permitted to increase. If nations are to
 limit deficits - and it seems they may be forced to - there is no alternative to the first
 two of these. This fundamental truth will constitute a major portion of the public
 debate in coming years.

 Tax policy consists of deciding who to take from (and how much) and who to give it to.
 There are no easy answers. We should all throw our support behind the common good
 and not just our individual interests.