Memo: What Can We Do For You?.

We'd love to be able to "do it all" for our clients and give them everything they hope for. It
would be great if we could predict what economies and markets will do, move in and out with
perfect timing, foresee which industries and companies will fare best, and hold only the
securities with the highest returns. But to paraphrase John Kenneth Galbraith on
forecasters, I feel there are two kinds of investment managers: those who can't do these
things and those who don't know they can't do these things.

At Oaktree we've always emphasized being brutally honest - with ourselves and with our clients
- about what we can and cannot do. Some managers claim to be able to do it all. Either they
really think they can, or they think to be successful they have to pretend they can. The late
Amos Tversky of Stanford University made it quite clear which is preferable:

 It's frightening to think that you might not know something, but more frightening
 to think that, by and large, the world is run by people who have faith that they
 know exactly what's going on.

In any endeavor involving uncertainty, not knowing what lies ahead isn't nearly as bad as
thinking you know if you don't. If you're setting out for a drive and recognize that you don't
know the way, you're likely to check a map, follow your GPS, ask directions and drive slowly,
watching for indications you've gone off course. But if you're sure you know the way, you're
more likely to skip these things, and if it turns out you didn't know, that'll make it much harder
to reach your destination.

Rather than commit the error of overconfidence, at Oaktree we consider it essential to
acknowledge the limits of our capabilities and act accordingly.

What Can't We Do?

The main thing we can't do is see the future, and particularly the macro future. That
simple statement has serious ramifications. It means a lot that we'd love to know is beyond us:

 we can't know what the economies of the world will do,
 we can't know whether markets will go up or down, and by how much and when,
 we can't know which market or sub-market will do best, and
 we can't know which securities in a given market will be the top performers.

And what does the fact that we can't know these things mean for our portfolio management?
Simple: it means we mustn't act as if we can.

If you could know these things, the path to success would be clear: Stick to markets that will do
well and avoid the rest. Concentrate on the individual securities that will be the best performers.
Load up when the market's about to rise and get out at the top. And use maximum leverage
when the return will exceed the cost of capital and none when it won't.

But what if you can't? You should acknowledge your limitations, enroll in the "I don't know"
school of thought, and accommodate your behavior to reality (see "Us and Them," May 7, 2004).
The more you acknowledge you don't know what the future holds:

 the more you should diversify, spreading your bets to make sure you don't miss the
 winners or, more importantly, overload on the losers,
 the less you should attempt to augment performance through adroit short-term market
 timing, and
 the less you should employ leverage.

The difference in behavior between those who think they can know the future and those who
don't is potentially enormous. It's essential to be on the right side of this choice because, as
Mark Twain said, "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know
for sure that just ain't so." That's an essential component of the formula for investment survival.

What Can We Do?

Investing consists almost entirely of making preparations for the future, and I just stated that the
future is largely unknowable. Does this mean that there's nothing we managers can do for our
clients? No, quite the contrary. Investors who understand reality can restrict their efforts to
areas in which they can make a difference and avoid wasting their time (or - even worse - taking
unjustified risks) where they can't. In fact, there's a long list of things we can do for our clients
despite our lack of prescience:

 We can highlight potentially fruitful asset classes, strategies and approaches.
 Clients generally have no choice but to know a little bit about a great many things. But
 because specialist managers are supposed to know a lot about a few things, they should
 be able to identify superior opportunities and the best way to access them.

 We can help inform the capital allocation decision by describing the attractiveness
 of our asset classes. We should know more than others about our markets' fundamental
 strengths and weaknesses, technical conditions and price attractiveness. This doesn't
 mean just speaking up when our markets are cheap; it also means admitting when they
 aren't. It can't always be "the greatest time" for any asset class.

 We can strive to know more than others about companies, industries and securities.
 A knowledge advantage is a clear prerequisite for consistently superior investment

 performance. While we can't know these things with certainty, specialized expertise can
 help us do a better job of assessing prospects and estimating intrinsic value.

 We can try to find bargains and avoid overpriced securities. By applying a
 disciplined approach to security selection, a manager should be able to judge the
 relationship between the price of each security and its intrinsic value. This can't be done
 flawlessly, of course, and at any rate the impact of this relationship on performance is
 often outweighed in the short run by trends in investor psychology and perception.
 Thus, like everything else, this won't work every time. But on balance the superior
 manager should be able to assemble portfolios whose holdings have a higher collective
 probability of moving in the right direction.

 We can limit risk. The risk in investing increases along with the degree to which the
 future is unknowable. Recognizing this, managers who acknowledge the limits on their
 foresight tend to incorporate a good measure of risk control in their portfolios. They try
 to make fewer investments whose success is heavily dependent on knowing what the
 future holds, thereby creating an increased margin of safety. This approach to
 investing shouldn't be expected to maximize return - especially in good times - but
 rather to maximize risk-adjusted return. This is a mission-critical part of the
 investment manager's job.

 We can control our egos and emotions. The biggest errors are made when the
 investing herd is driven by emotion: to buy at the top by greed and excitement, and to
 sell at the bottom by fear and despondency. These errors are compounded when
 investors - even professionals - surrender to their egos and overestimate the degree to
 which their judgments are correct. Superior managers can help their clients by refusing
 to mirror these flaws.

 We can act as contrarians. Given the way the emotion-led consensus is wrong at the
 extremes as described above, there's money to be made by doing the opposite.
 Objectivity, insight and ego control are all you need. But it's far from easy. The
 successful contrarian has to have a sense for what the herd is doing, understand what's
 wrong with its behavior, resist the emotions driving it and do the opposite - all of this
 despite being "only human" and thus not immune to the forces driving others.

 We can behave counter-cyclically. The cycles in economies and markets conspire to
 cause investment mistakes. For example, in advanced up-cycles:

 o the economic indicators show gains,
 o companies report earnings increases,
 o assets appreciate,
 o investors enjoy good returns,
 o riskier approaches outperform,
 o leverage adds to gains, and
 o the capital markets eagerly provide financing.

 Developments like these encourage investors to behave aggressively. However, the right
 time to do so isn't when things have been going well, but after economies and markets
 have declined. But then, conditions make doing them much more difficult. Akin to
 contrarians, counter-cyclical investors can produce good performance with low attendant
 risk by doing the right thing at the right time. This, too, isn't easy. But anyone can do
 things that are easy . . . which don't add any value. Superior managers are supposed to
 do the things that are hard. I consider behaving counter-cyclically to be one of a
 manager's most important responsibilities.

So there's quite a list of things that should be within managers' capabilities. Superior managers
should be able to keep very busy and make a significant contribution to their clients'
performance . . . even though they can't know the future.

Oaktree on Market Timing

This memo provides an ideal opportunity for me to discuss Oaktree's position on these matters
and address some potential inconsistencies.

In the weeks before Oaktree opened its doors in April 1995, my partners and I spent a great deal
of time turning the ideas that had guided our actions over the preceding years into the explicit
investment philosophy that would govern our new company. We wrote out the six tenets of our
philosophy, and we haven't changed a word since. The first two concern the values that we hope
we're best known for: risk control and consistency. But questions sometimes arise about
numbers five and six, in which we disavow macro-forecasting and market timing. Certainly
these disavowals are consistent with what I've said managers can and can't do. But do we
adhere to them?

It's plain to see that our tactical approach to our markets varies over time:

 In marketable securities, we open and close for new capital; raise and lower the
 defensiveness of our holdings; stay fully invested or allow cash to increase modestly; and
 adjust our allocation to cyclical companies.

 In private partnerships, we raise larger and smaller funds; occasionally organize follow-
 on "b" funds before their predecessors are fully invested; raise and lower the percentage
 invested in senior securities; and invest at a rapid pace sometimes and gradually at others.

So it's appropriate to ask whether our behavior is consistent with our philosophy. Can our
actions be reconciled with our professed non-reliance on foreknowledge? Or are we really secret
forecasters or closet market timers? The questions are simple, but the answer is not.

First, we don't undertake the tactical actions described above in response to what we or
some economists think the future holds, but rather on the basis of what we see going on in
the marketplace at the time. What kind of things do we react to?

 The simplest signs surround valuation. What's the yield spread between high yield bonds
 and Treasurys? And between single-B and triple-C? Where are the yields and premiums
 on convertibles? Are distressed senior loans selling at 60 cents on the dollar or 90? Is
 the S&P 500 selling at 30 times earnings or 12? These things tell us whether markets -
 and investor ardor - are overheated or ice cold.

 We find nothing as terrifying as the ability to easily do dumb deals (see "The Race to the
 Bottom," February 14, 2007). When large numbers of transactions occur that leave us
 shaking our heads, it's a strong signal that the market is lacking in the risk aversion and
 skepticism that are needed to keep it safe and sane.

 Equally worrisome is the presence of investor ebullience. When results are good and
 everyone's certain that more of the same must lie ahead, the pendulum of investor
 psychology invariably swings to extremes of greed, optimism, confidence and
 credulousness - the raw material for bubbles and subsequent crashes. I constantly go
 back to Warren Buffett's formulation: "The less prudence with which others conduct
 their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs."

 It's also troubling if aggressive investment vehicles are popular and over-subscribed. For
 the value-conscious investor, the seven scariest words in the world are "too much money
 chasing too few deals." But that's likely to be the case when everyone's certain that each
 new issue, fund and black box represents the chance of a lifetime.

The key lies in the fact that our strongest actions are undertaken in response to currently
observable phenomena like these, not predictions. The way I put it, "we may never know
where we're going, but we'd better know where we are."

Second, I confess: I think about the future. So do my colleagues. If someone who's spent
decades investing doesn't have opinions about what lies ahead, there's something wrong. I
believe our clients want us to apply the benefit of our experience in gauging and reacting to the
opportunities and risks that lie ahead.

But I have a mantra on this subject, too: "It's one thing to have an opinion; it's something very
different to assume it's right and act on that assumption." We have views on the future. And
they can cause us to "lean" toward offense or defense. Just never so much that for the results to
be good, our views have to be right.

Here's the full text of the tenets in question. I think you'll see that we're true to the limitations
expressed above, albeit perhaps not slavishly.

 Macro-forecasting not critical to investing - We believe consistently excellent
 performance can only be achieved through superior knowledge of companies and
 their securities, not through attempts at predicting what is in store for the
 economy, interest rates or the securities markets. Therefore, our investment
 process is entirely bottom-up, based upon proprietary, company-specific research.
 We use overall portfolio structuring as a defensive tool to help us avoid dangerous

 concentration, rather than as an aggressive weapon expected to enable us to hold
 more of the things that do best.

 Disavowal of market timing - Because we do not believe in the predictive ability
 required to correctly time markets, we keep portfolios fully invested whenever
 attractively priced assets can be bought. Concern about the market climate may
 cause us to tilt toward more defensive investments, increase selectivity or act
 more deliberately, but we never move to raise cash. Clients hire us to invest in
 specific market niches, and we must never fail to do our job. Holding investments
 that decline in price is unpleasant, but missing out on returns because we failed to
 buy what we were hired to buy is inexcusable.

You'll occasionally see modest increases in the cash levels in our portfolios. However, they
occur largely because we're finding more things to sell than buy, not because we're predicting a
market decline. Most of our actions along these lines are micro-driven.

Likewise, we never say, "It's cheap today, but it'll be cheaper tomorrow, so we'll wait." If it's
cheap today, we buy it. If it gets cheaper, we'll buy more. Waiting to buy until it gets cheaper
could help us avoid a decline, but if we're right about the asset's merit, that decline will prove
temporary. On the other hand, if the decline never materializes, waiting will keep us from
making a good investment . . . that is, from doing what our clients pay us to do.

So the bottom line is that we walk a fine line between not trying to be forecasters or market
timers, but also not being so oblivious to what's going on around us that we miss
opportunities to avoid dangerous markets or take advantage of bargains.

Thoughts on Portfolio Positioning

I'm going to use the context of this memo to set out a way of thinking about portfolio structuring
that I've developed recently, and to show how I would apply it today. I'm not saying it's an
unerring thought process, or the only way to think, but I hope you'll find it potentially useful.
I'm sure I'll have more to suggest in the future. But I've been thinking and talking about these
things in recent months, and I want to share them here.

The thought process centers on three questions I think an asset allocator should ask each day
upon coming to the office:

First, do you expect prosperity or not? Why do I ask? Didn't I say above that investors can't
know the future? Yes, I think the economic future is unknowable - that is, that few among us
are able to know more than the consensus about what the economy's going to do. And that's
especially true at inflection points, when it's important to stop extrapolating recent trends.

But we cannot escape the responsibility for deciding whether to position our portfolios
aggressively or defensively, and thus to decide what asset classes and tactics to emphasize.

Doing so requires us to make some gross assumptions about the economic outlook. Again,
however, we shouldn't act boldly out of conviction that our assumptions are right.

If the economic environment will reflect prosperity, we might want to put more into growth
stocks, cyclical companies, risky assets and levered strategies. If it won't, it might be better to
favor value stocks, "real" assets, safer companies and unlevered strategies. Unless we're willing
to flatly say we don't know anything about the future and always hold a fixed or "policy"
portfolio, we have to try to assess the outlook and adjust accordingly.

Second, which of the two main risks with which investors have to contend should you
worry about more: the risk of losing money or the risk of missing opportunities? A skilled
investor can eliminate one or the other of these risks, but nobody can eliminate them both. How,
then, should one behave? You can put all your efforts into avoiding one risk or the other, but
that's imprudent. Or you can maintain a fixed balance between the two, but that seems to
excessively ignore variation in the outlook for upside potential and downside risk. Instead, I
think the right approach is to adjust your stance as the environment changes.

To me, the answer to this question lies primarily in the degree of cheapness prevailing in the
markets. When asset prices are high, there's more risk to be aware of and less opportunity to
worry about missing. On the other hand, when prices are low, it's appropriate to worry less
about the risk of loss and more about missing out on the opportunities created by those low
prices.

Third, what are the right investing attributes for today? Three years ago, at the depths of the
post-Lehman crisis, you only needed two things to achieve big gains: money and the nerve to
spend it. With prices so low, you didn't need caution, prudence, conservatism, risk control,
patience or selectivity. In fact, the more of those things you had, the more you were held back
and the less money you made. In that crisis climate, "money and nerve" was enough.

Does that mean money and nerve is always a surefire formula for success? Absolutely not.
Think about 2005-07: money and nerve was a recipe for disaster. Then you needed caution,
prudence, conservatism, risk control, patience and selectivity. Only if you had a good dose of
those things might you avoid the full brunt of the financial crisis that lay ahead.

The formula for success in investing changes, based largely on the conditions in the
environment. What are the right attributes for today? Money and nerve, or risk control and
selectivity?

These three questions are interrelated and overlapping, and in sum they come down
primarily to the choice between offense and defense. Unless you insist on maintaining a
constant position in this regard, determining your stance is one of the most important
investment decisions.

Portfolio Structuring Today

As I've written in recent years, I don't see a quick return to the prosperity of the past. In the
1990s, for example, we experienced the best of all worlds:

 the economy did well,
 although incomes grew slowly, the growing use of credit buttressed consumers' ability to
 spend,
 there were great strides in technology and productivity,
 companies reported rising earnings,
 stocks appreciated every year, not by their "normal" 10%, but by 20% on average,
 the wealth effect from growing 401k's added to consumers' willingness to spend,
 interest rates declined continually,
 capital was readily available,
 inflation remained under control,
 faith ran high in the ability of the Fed to keep the economy on a steady path, and
 there was peace in the world.

Now that's good times!

Today, the U.S. economy is doing fairly well, and it should continue to recover in the years
ahead. In fact, I think the main immediate risk to recovery stems from uncertainty connected to
the European crisis. Will Europe experience a recession (or is it in one already)? Will a
European recession cut into America's growth? Will Europe's political leaders prove unable to
arrive at and implement the required solutions? Will countries exit the euro and/or reschedule
debt? Will uncertainty surrounding Europe's financial institutions impact the U.S. economy and
its own institutions?

I'd say "maybe" to all these things. And maybe not. But to me the bottom line is that, regardless
of these specifics, the outlook isn't positive enough to call for prosperity or anything
approaching the good feelings of the 1990s.

 After spending more than they made for a good while, American consumers should
 realize the attraction of owing less and having some money in the bank. So maybe for a
 while they'll spend less than they make. And credit may be harder to come by than it
 was in the past, similarly limiting credit-fueled consumption. While good for individual
 balance sheets, these trends will constrain aggregate economic growth.

 The U.S. has its own deficits and debt to worry about. We have to consider the impact on
 growth of reduced government spending and increased taxes, the same austerity the rest
 of the world is experiencing. Even without any action on the part of government,
 significant, already-mandated tax increases and spending cuts have the capacity to
 impede GDP growth.

 A few months ago there was talk of a double-dip recession in the U.S. We don't hear
 much about it today, but that doesn't mean it's off the table.

 Nobody can prove that the U.S. won't fall into a slow-growth malaise similar to what
 Japan has been experiencing, although I believe it will avoid doing so thanks to the spirit
 of creativity and optimism that remains in force.

Taking all of these things together, I think the probabilities favor slow growth at best,
making it unlikely that this is the time for aggressive investment behavior.

On the other hand - and there definitely is an "other hand" - there are significant factors
arguing against extreme risk aversion. They relate primarily to market conditions.

First, in many cases valuations are quite reasonable. U.S. stocks, for example, are much cheaper
than usual, selling at low absolute p/e ratios. The S&P 500 has failed to appreciate over the last
twelve years, while corporate earnings have grown substantially. Thus its p/e ratio has tumbled.
The average p/e in the postwar era was 15 or 16, and in 1999 it reached 30. Today it's about 12.
Of course there are caveats:

 While equity valuations are down, it can be argued that they're not down enough to
 reflect all of the deterioration in the secular outlook. Conversely, it's impossible to prove
 that they are.

 In addition, it's always possible that earnings estimates are too high, meaning stocks
 aren't as cheap as their p/e ratios suggest.

The one thing I know for sure, however, is that U.S. stocks are cheap versus historic norms.

Another example of cheapness can be seen in high yield bonds. In the 33 years since I organized
Citibank's first high yield bond fund, the normal yield spread between the high yield indices and
comparable-duration Treasurys has been 300 to 550 basis points. Today the spread is closer to

History shows that if you invest in the high yield bond indices when spreads go above 550 b.p.,
you usually outperform Treasurys by a wide margin over the next few years. Thus it's clear that
with spreads at 700 b.p., they're priced to outperform. High yield bonds - like stocks - could
turn out not to have been cheap enough, but there's no arguing with the fact that they (and senior
leveraged loans) are relatively very cheap. (Of course you can't eat relative performance, and
the current attractiveness of high yield bonds is very much a function of how low Treasury yields
are. Nevertheless, after staring at 2% yields on Treasurys for a few years, 8% seems like a lot.)

So we have valuation on our side in today's markets. What else? The other positive, in my
view, relates to the "temperature" of the market. I've often written that the key to understanding
what might lie ahead is a sense for what's going on in the investment environment.

 The riskiest things are investor eagerness, a high level of risk tolerance, and a belief that
 risk is low. That's a pretty good description of 2005-07.

 In contrast, we can take heart when investors are discouraged, risk aversion is running
 high, and economic difficulty is all over the headlines . . . like today.

Twelve years ago, equity returns were ending one of their best decades ever; p/e ratios were way
above the norms; investors were participating in a love affair with stocks; equity allocations had
been built up; and no one could think of a reason why the performance of stocks might flag.
Now stocks have produced no gain for years, and no one's excited about them, even though
they're vastly cheaper. In 1999, sky-high valuations and investor ardor positioned stocks for
a "lost decade." Today, low valuations and investor indifference just might mean they're
poised to surprise on the upside.

Unlike the pre-crisis days, virtually no one is oblivious to the macro risks. Most investors hold
modest expectations for the developed economies and for the markets. I think this is quite
favorable. To put it succinctly, the potential for investment gains is above average when
expectations don't fully anticipate the eventual reality. This potential comes not from a future
that will be positive, but from a future - whether positive or not - that is underestimated.
Underestimation creates the possibility of favorable surprises and, in general, when things turn
out better than expected, markets rise.

At the risk of oversimplifying, I see a long list of macro risks on one side of the scale, and
low valuations and joyless investors on the other. Prices are neither so high that we must
be hyper-cautious nor so low as to call for aggressiveness. Thus I think it's time to balance
defense and offense, and to move forward, albeit with caution. That's what we plan on doing
in the coming months, while attempting to execute on my list of the things a manager can do for
you.


Memo: Assessing Performance Records – A Case Study.

What are the non-negotiable requirements for accurately assessing investment performance? I'd
say:

 a record spanning a significant number of years,
 a period that includes both good years and bad, enabling us to assess performance under a
 variety of circumstances, and
 a benchmark or peer universe that makes for a relevant comparison.

The other day, at an event for alumni and other constituents of the University of Pennsylvania,
president Amy Gutmann reviewed the performance of the university during the financial crisis.
In the process, she had some kind words for Penn's Investment Board, which I chaired for the
ten years from June 30, 2000 through June 30, 2010. Thinking about it afterward, I realized that
I should share with you the story of Penn's endowment and its lessons. Penn has agreed that I
may do so. The data is a little out of date, but the lessons aren't.

A Little Background

For roughly two decades starting in the late 1970s, Penn's endowment was led by John Neff,
probably the most respected investor of that era, in strict adherence to the principles of value
investing. Thus, its fortunes fluctuated along with the performance of that school of thought. It
did extremely well in the 1980s, when value beat growth and Penn outperformed the value
school, and it lagged a little in the early '90s, when those trends reversed.

Penn's portfolio completely lacked exposure to growth stocks, tech stocks, buyouts or venture
capital. Thus it fell behind substantially in fiscal 1995 through fiscal 1999, when it gained 16% a
year but the average of its peers gained about 23%. Then, in fiscal 2000, the last year before I
became chairman, value stocks stagnated, tech stocks soared, and returns on venture capital
ranged well into triple digits. Penn lost 2% while its peers averaged returns in the twenties and
those with investments in the right venture capital funds made twice that. Penn constituencies
such as alumni/donors and the administration were very unhappy in those years, despite the
endowment's high absolute overall return.

Penn appointed its first Chief Investment Officer in the late 1990s and began to diversify the
portfolio beyond value. Having been on the Investment Board for a few years, I became its
chairman at the start of fiscal 2001. The events of the next decade, along with the decisions
made and actions taken, provide a number of valuable lessons.

What Matters?

The first of those lessons is that the ability to ignore relative performance depends on the
circumstances and, in particular, the constituencies the performance has to please.
Endowments provide an outstanding example of this phenomenon. Intellectually, no one could
be unhappy with 16% a year for five years. In fact, the trustees of a private foundation probably
would have been delighted with such a return in FY1995-99. But it's harder for an institution
with outside constituents, like a university, to dismiss relative performance. Alumni question the
management of the endowment, and prospective donors start to say, "I love the school, but it
makes no sense for me to make my gift now. I'll hold onto the money, grow it at a rate above
what you're achieving, and give it later." No university president wants to be the recipient of
that message.

In order to survive and have a chance to produce long-term performance, investors have to live
up to their constituents' expectations in the short run. Of course, it's important to inculcate
reasonable expectations, or to choose clients who have them. But ultimately, the manager's
job isn't to make money, it's to deliver client satisfaction, so expectations have to matter.
All of us, on both sides of the process, should be sure we know what pattern of performance is
expected. How else can we know how satisfaction can be delivered?

As a result of holding a highly idiosyncratic portfolio, Penn experienced performance that
deviated - unfavorably - from that of its peers to an extent that became intolerable. This
necessitated change.

Do It Now?

Upon starting in on the job, I was immediately confronted by one of the truly classic investment
dilemmas: You take on the management of a portfolio, and you just know it's structured wrong
in principle. In Penn's case, it was clearly unwise - probably in terms of optimizing risk and
return, and certainly in terms of keeping up with peers, and thus expectations - to completely
omit the things that had been excluded from Penn's portfolio.

I knew right away that Penn's portfolio should include some exposure to growth, tech, buyouts
and venture capital. But the reason their exclusion had become so painful is that they had done
so well for a half-decade. So in principle you should own something, but its price is sky-
high. Should you hold your nose and buy at what may be excessive prices? Or should you
wait for a correction, at the risk of continuing to underperform if it goes higher (since we
know how often things that are overpriced can continue upward)?

Whenever I'm presented with this dilemma, I trot out a 1957 cartoon from The New Yorker
Magazine that was reproduced in the Financial Analysts Journal in 1975. It's my absolute
favorite, and I've been waiting for an opportunity to share it with you:

For me, this cartoon frames the question precisely: Should we do the thing that's right in
principle, or should we alter our behavior to reflect today's real-world conditions? There's
no one right answer; it goes back to expectations. If it's important to track the competition, you
should start to make the portfolio less idiosyncratic, regardless of price attractiveness. But if you
care more about absolute performance, achieved with risk under control, you should refuse to
buy sky-high assets.

The latter is my preference, and it was reflected in my decision. Penn held off from buying tech
and growth stocks. But I had declared my intention before taking the job. To put it in horribly
mixed metaphors, having missed the boat for six years, I said I wouldn't jump on the
bandwagon just in time to ride it over the cliff. I hoped making this clear would condition
expectations and provide cover in case our actions initially proved wrong.

Offense or Defense?

The dilemma just discussed relates to the biggest single issue facing anyone tasked with
structuring a portfolio: whether to stress offense - trying for high returns - or defense - reducing
the likelihood of losses. Of course most investors balance these two things. The question is in
what proportion.

Penn's historic emphasis on value investing and its eschewing of bigger potential money makers
had a lot to do with defense, especially in the environment of the late 1990s. Likewise, I believe
I am known - and I certainly know myself - to be one who usually puts great emphasis on
defense. Would a cautious approach continue to penalize Penn, or was it what was called
for under the circumstances? Having fallen so far behind, should we continue to stress
defense to avoid losses if the market reversed course, or should we go on the offensive in an
attempt to make up the lost ground?

This question had particular importance at Penn. Given its early history as a commuter school
rather than an elite institution like some of its peers, Penn came into the 21st century under-
endowed; it ranked only 70th in the country in endowment per student. So the stewards of
Penn's endowment faced a particular dilemma: should we invest conservatively because we
can't afford to lose the little bit we had, or aggressively in an attempt to close the gap?

Again, there's no one right answer to that question, and perhaps there was no one right answer
for Penn. But the answer was clear for me: I wouldn't preside over a shift to offense . . . and
especially not on the heels of one of the best decades for stocks in history.

Working with CIOs Landis Zimmerman (now at Howard Hughes Medical Institute) in the early
years and especially closely with Kristin Gilbertson in 2004-2010, the Investment Board and I
led gradual diversification into growth stocks, emerging markets and defense-oriented hedge
funds, with an emphasis on managers stressing risk-control. We established an allocation for
private equity but implemented it very slowly. We kept an above-average percentage of the
portfolio in publicly traded securities. And, importantly, we maintained a substantial allocation
to cash and U.S. Treasurys, solely to enable us to meet the need for cash for operations and
thereby avoid having to sell assets in a time of depressed prices.

The Results

The performance produced by these decisions was quite predictable. With its low-risk portfolio,
Penn outperformed when risk taking was penalized but trailed when risk taking was rewarded. It
outperformed when value stocks did well but lagged when more aggressive tools, including
leverage and portable alpha, paid off. For the decade overall it lagged the average of its peer
institutions by a small margin and exhibited lower volatility. No surprise there. Penn's return
was about 51⁄2% for FY2001-10, while most of its peers made 6% or 7%.

But average results don't tell the whole story. It's important to remember one of my favorite
adages, about the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on
average. In investing, it's not enough to survive "on average." You have to survive on the worst
days, when the low points in the market are reached. My decade as chairman provided an
outstanding opportunity to see that adage in action.

The Realities of Risk and Return

In late 2008 and early 2009 (in other words, for universities, fiscal year 2009), the global
financial crisis presented the greatest sinkhole in eighty years. Those caught mid-stream without
life jackets were penalized. Many of Penn's leading peer institutions lost 25-28% that year,
while Penn's loss was "only" 151⁄2%. I described Penn's results, loosely speaking, as "the least
worst."

Going from the investment arena to the real world of university operations makes it clear
that investment risk isn't an abstraction. No, risk isn't just volatility. It's what happens to
owners of capital when downward fluctuations occur and principal losses are experienced.

Many of Penn's peers were forced to curtail some of their spending, ranging from hot breakfasts
to student aid. Some had to suspend construction projects. There were freezes on hiring and
wages. Some put illiquid partnership interests up for sale to raise cash and/or escape continuing
funding obligations. And some had to borrow in the taxable bond market to meet cash needs.

Penn, on the other hand, had lots of liquidity and faced little in the way of capital calls. Thus it
didn't have to go on the defensive operationally. Instead, it was able to keep hiring faculty, keep
giving grants instead of loans, and take advantage of an attractive opportunity to purchase
adjacent acreage. The benefits of risk control were made concrete. And the performance of the
endowment, the CIO and the Investment Board - and, as I said earlier, yours truly - became the
subject of some very nice words.

What If? - Part I

All of the above is history. It presented taxing dilemmas and important choices, but other than as
to degree, nothing portfolio managers, CIOs and investment committees don't face routinely.
But there are two hidden issues - both somewhat philosophical - that I find far more interesting,
provocative and important. They surround questions of timing and chance.

Sometimes investors feel something is going to happen in the period ahead, and that they should
do something about it in their portfolios. And sometimes they're right. But rarely do the
anticipated events occur as expected, and thus rarely are investors' actions proved correct
immediately. Overpriced assets continue to appreciate, and cheap stocks decline further. Even if
they do the right thing, very few investors do it at just the right time. Thus timing - and in
particular the selection of the beginning point and end point for studying a performance
record - plays an incredibly important role in perceptions of success or failure.

In his important book Fooled by Randomness, Nassim Nicholas Taleb points out how easily
random events can make good decisions look wrong and bad decisions look right. Clearly one of
the reasons for this is that events don't happen on schedule. I think of investment performance
as what happens when events collide with a pre-existing portfolio. A good decision can wisely
anticipate the range of things that might happen, but the one thing that actually happens
may not have been one of the ones that reasonably could have been considered highly likely

- or even possible. Or it may just happen at a time other than when it "should" have. The
bottom line is that investors are often "right for the wrong reason," and vice versa.

So the first key observation is this: I came into the job at the end of a highly bullish period,
maintained a cautious approach, and it worked. What if I'd gotten the job two years
earlier? I probably would have done many of the same things. But now my tenure would have
included the horrendous FY2000, with Penn's 3,000 basis point underperformance. And it
would have omitted FY2009, in which Penn lost 1,200 basis points less than many peers and
avoided being hamstrung. If I had led Penn's endowment to take the same actions in FY1999-
2008 as it did in FY2001-2010, which is quite likely, I'd be considered a very average chairman
. . . at best.

The principle lesson of this tale is the observation that investment timing is imprecise and
difficult but extremely significant in terms of outcomes. The bottom line: be understanding
when evaluating track records, and refuse to accept the results at first glance. Taleb
reminds us to wonder about "alternative histories" - the other things that reasonably, probably
could have happened. Doing so isn't easy, but it's essential in any field in which randomness
plays a big part.

What If? - Part II

The second philosophical question is similar but even simpler: what if the global financial
crisis hadn't occurred?

My tenure as chairman of Penn's endowment was marked by my characteristic preference for
being able to survive bad times over acting to take maximum advantage of good times. And the
worst financial event in eighty years materialized, making that the right approach for the times.
But was I "right"?

As I said before, during my tenure, Penn underperformed by a bit: 51⁄2% versus 6-7%, a very
reasonable sacrifice in exchange for side-stepping the pain of the crisis. But if we take out
FY2009, the results for the other nine years were 8% for Penn versus 101⁄2-111⁄2% for its peers. Is
that still a reasonable sacrifice?

It was largely the arrival of the crisis - with its influence on the ten-year record and its highly
visible impact on university operations - that made my tenure a successful one. But could the
crisis reasonably have been anticipated, making my caution appropriate? Or was it
unforeseeable and thus fortuitous, meaning I was right for the wrong reason? I wonder about
this a lot, in order to derive the significance of my tenure as chairman and learn from it. (If you
want to read more about "what if" questions like these, you might enjoy the section called
"What's Real?" in my memo Pigweed, from December 7, 2006.)

The conclusions of my introspection are as follows:

 I lean strongly toward investing defensively unless asset prices are so low and investors
 so chastened that less cautious behavior is called for.
 In Penn's position endowment-wise, an emphasis on defense was appropriate.
 The euphoric market behavior of the late 1990s, and especially 1999, made elevated
 caution particularly compelling.
 It was certainly the events that unfolded that made my actions seem as right as they do.
 The events marking the crisis came largely as a surprise. Although I was increasingly
 worried in the period from late 2004 through the first half of 2007, I did not foresee the
 specific events of the global financial crisis of 2008, or its severity.
 Although Penn's approach was generally cautious throughout, we increased the
 defensiveness of the portfolio significantly in 2006-08. Thus it can't be argued that the
 portfolio stayed equally cautious all the time and eventually was bailed out by the crisis.

The bottom line - however you slice it - is that a cautious approach was appropriate under the
circumstances, and it paid off for Penn. No strategy works all the time, but defensiveness was
right for Penn as things turned out. Lucky or good? It's always hard to tell.

 * * *

A full ten years, but still the results were obviously highly dependent on the vagaries of timing
and on some largely unforeseeable events. Were the actions taken at Penn right? Wrong?
Or right for the wrong reason? We should insist on engaging in this kind of examination.
Only then can we draw reliable conclusions and hope to improve our decision making. Let
me know if Oaktree can help in this regard.


Memo: Déjà Vu All Over Again.

What good is history? After all, it‟s in the past.

 The truth is, history can be one of our greatest aids . . . in investing as in life. Here in the fifth
 decade of my investment career, I feel a lot of my ability to add value comes from the amount of
 history I‟ve witnessed and the significance I‟ve extracted from it.

 Regular readers know I often include time-tested quotations in my memos. Why wouldn‟t I?
 They‟ve endured precisely because they‟re so relevant and so well put. Why try to reinvent the
 wheel, rewriting them, only to come up short? On this subject, several stand out. I‟ve used them
 all before, some more than once:

 Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. (George
 Santayana)

 The farther back you can look, the farther forward you are likely to see.
 (Winston Churchill)

 History doesn‟t repeat itself, but it does rhyme. (Mark Twain)

 Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time or in
 past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory. In
 consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further consequence,
 when the same or closely similar circumstances occur again . . . they are hailed
 by a new, often youthful, and always supremely self-confident generation as a
 brilliantly innovative discovery . . . . There can be few fields of human endeavor
 in which history counts for so little as in the world of finance. Past experience, to
 the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of
 those who do not have insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present.
 (John Kenneth Galbraith)

 One of the greatest differences between humans and animals is supposed to lie in the fact that we
 can learn other than through direct experience. We don‟t have to sit on a hot stove to learn not to
 do it. We can learn from history and from lessons passed on by our predecessors - things they
 experienced or learned from others in turn - so that we needn‟t experience them ourselves. But to
 enjoy this benefit, we must pay heed to the people and events that preceded us.

 As Twain said, the events of history don‟t repeat exactly. It‟s rarely the very same thing over and
 over. In investing, for example, the duration and amplitude of fluctuations are rarely the same
 from cycle to cycle. (It drives me crazy when people say, "high yield bonds tend to default
 around the second anniversary of their issuance." That happened to be the average for one
 particular period, but there‟s no reason for it to be true, and thus no reason it should be a useful
 rule going forward.)

 But as Twain also said, there are themes that rhyme. It‟s what I would call "tendencies" or
 "behavioral patterns" that present the important lessons. The tendency of investors to overlook or
 forget the past is noteworthy. So is their habit of succumbing to emotion and swallowing tall (but
 potentially lucrative) tales. In particular, people tend to forget the cyclical nature of things,
 extrapolate past trends to excess, and ignore the likelihood of regression to the mean.

 The tech bubble may not recur anytime soon. No online grocer may ever again sell at 200 times
 revenues. There may never be another CDO-squared or SIV. Those aren‟t the things that matter.
 But there's sure to be another cycle, another bubble and another crisis. There'll be another
 time when people overpay for exciting investment ideas because their future appears
 limitless, and then a time of disillusionment and price collapse. There'll be another period
 when leverage is embraced to excess, and then, consequently, a period when it gets people
 killed. And there'll certainly be another time when people can only imagine the possibility
 of gain, and then one when - after huge sums have been lost - they can think only of further
 declines.

 These are the kinds of things that rhyme. If we stay alert, we can anticipate and recognize them
 and thus avoid the losses and opportunity costs they bring so reliably.

 The Death of Equities

 Sometimes the ideas for my memos come from the gradual accretion of insights over a long
 period of time, and sometimes they come from a single inspiration. This time it‟s the latter.

 Lying in bed sleepless on Sunday the 11th, while on a business trip to South America, I dug into
 my Oaktree bag for something to read. I came across a reprint of "The Death of Equities" from
 BusinessWeek magazine of August 13, 1979. I‟d spoken about it over lunch with Josh Kuntz of
 Rivulet Capital, and he was good enough to send it to me at my request. As I read it thoroughly
 for the first time in 33 years, my wife Nancy‟s battle cry rang out: "This calls for a memo."

 This was a seminal article, signaling a tectonic shift in investing. Here was its thrust:

 Seven million shareholders have defected from the stock market since 1970.
 The Labor Department has interpreted ERISA as giving institutions that invest pension
 money the ability to go beyond listed stocks and high grade bonds and into "shares of small
 companies, real estate, commodity futures and into gold and diamonds." Thus they were
 "pouring money into . . . mortgage-backed paper, foreign securities, venture capital, leases,
 guaranteed insurance contracts, indexed bonds, stock options, and futures."
 "Whereas stocks once made up 80% of mutual fund assets, today that figure has slumped to
 less than 50%."
 "Few corporations can find buyers for their stocks."
 All of these things were the result of thirteen years of rapid inflation and ten years of returns
 on equities averaging less than 3% per year.
 "The Labor Department ruling is just one more in a nearly endless string of unhealthy things
 that have happened to the stock market over the past decade."
 "This „death of equity‟ can no longer be seen as something a stock market rally - however
 strong - will check."
 "For better or for worse, then, the U.S. economy probably has to regard the death of equities
 as [a] near-permanent condition - reversible some day, but not soon."

 According to BusinessWeek, then, it was all over for equities. No one would ever buy them
 again.

 Whatever caused it, the institutionalization of inflation - along with structural
 changes in communications and psychology - have killed the U.S. equity market
 for millions of investors.

 What a negative article, ostensibly the death knell for an entire market. What was the shift that
 it marked? Simply this: the end of a lost decade for equities and the beginning of the
 greatest bull market in history.

 There‟s literally a lifetime of memos in that one magazine article, but I‟ll spend a little less than
 that dissecting it. I hope you‟ll find these comments useful.

 Yogi Lives

 Lawrence "Yogi" Berra was a baseball catcher and an integral part of the New York Yankees‟
 successful dynasty in the middle of the twentieth century. While a great player, he was also the
 undisputed king of the tortured phrase or malapropism. Here are a few:

 "It ain‟t over ‟til it‟s over."
 "Ninety percent of the game is half mental."
 "When you come to a fork in the road, take it."
 "Always go to other people‟s funerals, otherwise they won‟t go to yours."

 In fact, Yogi supplied the title for this memo, saying "It‟s déjà vu all over again." Rising to his
 own defense, however, he denied the tendency for which he is so well known, saying, "I really
 didn‟t say everything I said."

 Do people really say things like these? Or was it just Yogi? Well, the writer of "The Death of
 Equities" gave him stiff competition:

 . . . with ever-escalating real estate prices . . . land is a hedge against loss.

 One of the few things I‟m sure of is that no price will be "ever-escalating."

 Individuals . . . are flocking into money market funds to nail down high rates.

 In a money-market fund, the period for which you nail down a rate of interest is measured in just
 days. In fact, the prime drawback of holding short-term paper is its failure to lock in a yield. One
 of the biggest mistakes I‟ve witnessed took place when people invested in one-year certificates of
 deposit in 1981 at 16%, rather than multi-year CDs at rates a little lower.

 For investors . . . low stock prices remain a disincentive to buy.

 What the writer is saying is that low prices point up how badly stocks have done over the
 preceding period and thus discourage investors from participating in the market. This is totally
 illogical, but in the investment world we hear things like it every day:

 "Everyone knows XYZ is underpriced." If everyone knows it‟s underpriced, why haven‟t
 they bought it and forced up its price?

 "Nobody will touch ABC; it‟s too risky." If they know it‟s risky - presumably because its
 price is too high - and are shunning it or selling, why hasn‟t its price settled down to a level
 where it‟s safe?

 The writer continued:

 Indeed, the average stock price is now about 60% of the replacement value of the
 underlying assets . . .

 . . . companies have jumped on low stock prices to set off the biggest takeover
 binge in history . . .

 . . . buying at these prices is cheaper than building.

 The writer would look smarter today if he had recognized the implications of the fact that stocks
 were selling for less than their underlying asset value, and that companies were buying up other
 companies for that reason. But he didn‟t. He also didn‟t ask why, if it was smart for companies
 to buy other companies‟ shares, it didn‟t make sense for investors to buy those same shares.
 (Note: it was largely the ability to buy companies cheaper in the stock market than you could
 build them that gave pioneers of leveraged buyouts such as KKR, Apax and Warburg Pincus the
 great returns on their purchases in the 1970s.)

 It would take a sustained bull market for a couple of years to attract broad-based
 investor interest and restore confidence.

 This one reminds me of my absolute favorite Yogi-ism: "Nobody goes [to that restaurant]
 anymore. It‟s too crowded." Wait a minute: how can a restaurant be crowded if nobody goes
 there?

 Likewise, in this case, according to the writer, it will take a bull market to attract investor interest
 and confidence. That sounds reasonable. But isn‟t investor interest and confidence a prerequisite
 for a bull market? Without it, how can a bull market get started?

 The answer is that when prices are low enough, stocks can begin to rise without help from a full-
 fledged bull market, just as when they‟re high enough, stock prices can collapse under their own
 weight.

 The bottom line here is simple, and I‟m thoroughly convinced of it: Common sense isn't
 common. The crowd is invariably wrong at the extremes. In the investing world,
 everything that's intuitively obvious is questionable and everything that's important is
 counter-intuitive. And investors prove repeatedly that they can be less logical than Yogi.

 The Penalty of Youth

 Let‟s think back to Galbraith‟s statement that "Past experience . . . is dismissed as the primitive
 refuge of those who do not have insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present." In
 other words, when a hot new investment fad gets rolling and an idea is elevated to bubble status,

 those with memory of the past - who might point out that the merits are overstated and the price
 is too high - are dismissed as "too old to get it."

 The Money Game, written in 1968 by George Goodman under the pseudonym Adam Smith,
 included among its characters the Great Winfield. Even though he was the dean of the brokerage
 office, he was able to make money in the hot stocks of the day. When asked how, he said, "My
 solution to the current market: kids. This is a kids‟ market. . . . The strength of my kids is that
 they are too young to remember anything bad, and they are making so much money they feel
 invincible." This exactly parallels Galbraith‟s observation.

 In other words, veterans are often held back by experience and historic norms, and thus they miss
 out on the "new thing." Only those who are free of those strictures can participate fully in the
 latest miracle . . . as long as it lasts.

 "The Death of Equities" leaned heavily on this line of reasoning, but in the opposite direction.
 You have to be young, it said, not to comprehend the new miracle, but to note the obsolescence of
 the old standby:

 Only the elderly, who have not understood the changes in the nation‟s financial
 markets, or are unable to adjust to them, are sticking with stocks.

 Today, the old attitude of buying solid stocks as a cornerstone for one‟s life
 savings and retirement has simply disappeared. Says a young U.S. executive:
 "Have you been to an American stockholders‟ meeting lately? They‟re all old
 fogeys. The stock market is just not where the action‟s at."

 And what consistently provides the foundation for this insistence that the game has
 permanently changed? Four of the most dangerous words in the investment world: it's
 different this time.

 When investors choose to believe that historic valuation standards have become irrelevant; that
 one industry or product can maintain superior growth and profitability in perpetuity; or that one
 asset or market can outperform all the others forever regardless of how high its price goes in the
 process - that is, that trees can grow to the sky - the bubble is invariably undergirded by a
 steadfast belief that it‟s different this time. Here‟s the support BusinessWeek advanced:

 Says Alan Coleman, dean of Southern Methodist University‟s business school,
 "We have entered a new financial age. The old rules no longer apply."

 When you see or hear words like these, you should go on high alert. Sometimes the world
 changes and the past becomes irrelevant, but most of the time I‟ll take the other side of that bet.

 Getting to the Truth

 In some ways, understanding the market is like mathematics. You don‟t have to be
 knowledgeable regarding the specifics of the underlying subject matter to know whether a
 conclusion makes sense. You just have to be able to apply principles, tell logic from illogic, and
 exclude the deleterious effects of emotion and psychology.

 Let‟s dissect "The Death of Equities" in that vein. What it says is that inflation has eaten into the
 outlook for the economy and companies, and there‟s no hope for improvement. Thus people have
 been throwing in the towel and selling stocks. Other things have come into vogue, attracting the
 capital that used to be invested in stocks. Mutual fund investors have turned their attention
 elsewhere. Most corporations can‟t issue new equity because of the dearth of buyers. Stocks
 have gone through a decade in which their absolute return was negligible and their real return was
 negative. They‟re selling below replacement value, showing how poor psychology is. They face
 a litany of negatives, without any real possibility of relief; that‟s the writer‟s "nearly endless
 string of unhealthy things that have happened to the stock market over the past decade."

 The negative factors are clear to the average investor. And from them he draws negative
 conclusions. But the person who applies logic and insight, rather than superficial views and
 emotion, sees something very different.

 He sees an asset class that is unloved. He sees stocks that have cheapened for a decade - once
 dividends have been subtracted from the returns, and especially when prices are viewed relative
 to earnings. He sees securities that are priced below the value of the underlying assets on which
 they have a claim. He sees outflows of capital that, rather than being a negative, have lowered
 prices and can give rise to a strong price rebound when and if they reverse. Most of all, he sees
 an asset class to which no optimism is being applied.

 If I were asked to name just one way to figure out whether something's a bargain or not, it
 would be through assessing how much optimism is incorporated in its price.

 No matter how good the fundamental outlook is for something, when investors apply too
 much optimism in pricing it, it won‟t be a bargain. That was the story of the Internet bubble;
 the Internet was expected to change the world, and it did, but when the optimism surrounding
 it proved to have been excessive, stock prices were decimated.

 Conversely, no matter how bad the outlook is for an asset, when little or no optimism is
 incorporated in its price, it can easily be a bargain capable of providing outsized returns with
 limited risk.

 Even with a bad "story," the price of an asset is unlikely to decline (other than perhaps in the
 very short term) unless the story deteriorates further or the optimism abates. And if there‟s
 no optimism built into its price, certainly the latter can‟t happen.

 It was primarily this line of reasoning that allowed me to feel positive in the teeth of the financial
 crisis in late 2008. The outlook was as bad as it could get - total meltdown - and prices clearly
 incorporated zero optimism. How, then, could buying be a mistake (providing the world didn‟t
 end)?

 In "The Tide Goes Out" (March 18, 2008), I described the three stages of a bear market. The
 third stage occurs when everyone becomes convinced that things can only get worse. Invariably
 this represents a great buying opportunity. And certainly it was such a level of negativity that
 "The Death of Equities" documented.

 So the insightful, unemotional, contrarian investor will read an article like "The Death of
 Equities" and conclude that things are about as bad as they can get. And if things can‟t get worse,
 they‟ll probably get better eventually. It‟s no more scientific than that. If in mid-1979 people
 thought things could only get worse, there was no optimism to evaporate. That meant the
 litany of negatives actually foreshadowed something very different: The Rebirth of Equities.
 And that's exactly what happened.

 The S&P 500 gained 18.4% in 1979, the year "The Death of Equities" was written, and went on
 to average 18.9% a year for the next 20 years. There were only two down years during that span:
 a measly 4.9% in 1982 and 3.1% in 1990. This has to have been the best 21-year period in the
 modern era. Importantly, the stage had been set for this rise in 1979 by the accumulation
 and excessively pessimistic discounting of negatives.

 Way back in February 1993 - it would be yellowed by now, except that electronic copies don‟t
 turn yellow - I wrote a memo entitled "The Value of Predictions, or Where‟d All This Rain Come
 From?" One of the things it discussed was the tendency of forecasters to extrapolate, especially
 when a trend has gone in one direction for a long time. They tend to conclude it will go that way
 forever . . . and increasingly so just as it becomes more likely to revert to the mean.

 In the memo, I mentioned that California had undergone a five-year drought. And that scientists
 had concluded from looking at ancient trees that a fifty-year drought couldn‟t be ruled out. And
 that torrential rainstorms had begun just a few months later.

 That‟s the way it goes. As something goes in one direction for a while, people conclude
 increasingly that it always will . . . often just when the likelihood grows that it will reverse
 instead. And that was the greatest shortcoming of "The Death of Equities." The extrapolator
 threw in the towel on stocks, just as the time was right for the contrarian to turn optimistic.
 And it will always be so.

 Go Around, Come Around

 It's easy with the benefit of hindsight to see that the writer of "The Death of Equities" was
 too negative at the bottom. But being too negative isn't the only pitfall. Most people also
 tend to be too positive at the top.

 The bookend to "The Death of Equities" is the work published in the 1990s by Jeremy Siegel, a
 highly respected professor of finance at the Wharton School and the author of Stocks for the Long
 Run. Through his work, Siegel showed that in almost two centuries, there had never been a 30-
 year period in which stocks didn‟t outperform cash, bonds and inflation, and very few such ten-
 year periods. Based on the consistency of this record, Siegel labeled stocks very safe (as long as
 you hold them for the long run). In fact, I heard him tell an audience that risk-averse investors
 should have 80-odd percent of their net worth in stocks, and risk-tolerant investors should have
 well over 100%.

 Siegel‟s research contributed to the fervor for equities that characterized the 1990s. And as
 stocks did better, the appetite for them rose. The period 1995-99 saw a compound average return
 of 28.6% on the S&P 500, the greatest five years in history. The ardor this reflected was
 explosive. Arguments were advanced to the effect that stocks - and tech stocks in particular -
 could only rise, and that they had to rise faster than anything else.

 Again the enemy was extrapolation. The average annual return had risen from about 10% for
 1929 to 1980, to 20.4% for 1980 to 1989, and to 28.6% for 1995 to 1999. But investors drew the
 wrong conclusions, the inverse of those of "The Death of Equities": they thought the good times
 could only roll on. However:

 They forgot that in the long run the gains of stocks stem primarily from growth in corporate
 profits, and that profits don‟t grow anywhere near 20-30% a year.
 They ignored the possibility that the ultra-high returns of the 1990s had borrowed from future
 returns.
 They failed to wonder whether the adoration of stocks had lifted their prices to dangerous
 heights.
 They asked "What has been the historic return on stocks?" and bought based on the favorable
 answer. But they didn‟t ask "What has been the historic return on stocks after they‟re risen
 almost 19% a year for 21 years?" or "What has been the historic return on stocks if bought at
 price/earnings ratios in the 30s?" The answer to these latter questions would have been very
 different.

 Extrapolation was at the root of these omissions, disregarding the possibility that events had
 changed the environment and thus the outlook.

 What did I say about the drought and rain? Of course, after stocks had done well enough in the
 1990s to encourage maximum bullishness and maximum allocations, their returns were primed
 for regression to the mean. And so stocks lagged bonds for the first time in the thirty years
 ending late last year.

 What's the lesson here? Not that history always repeats, or that it never repeats. And not
 that stocks can only do well or only do poorly. But rather that the trends that lead up to a
 point in time have a profound effect on people's thinking and on the environment, and thus
 on the trends that will occur thereafter. That price gains increase danger and price declines
 increase opportunity. And that most investors and observers tend to be too positive at the
 top and too negative at the bottom.

 These lessons are invaluable. The study of history makes them clear, just as ignorance of
 history makes them potentially lethal.

 One More Round

 I‟m amazed at how often, just as I‟m about to complete a memo, I come across the right coda
 with which to bring it to an end. This time I found it in The Wall Street Journal of March 12, just
 a day after I‟d started writing.

 In an article entitled "Why Stocks Are Riskier than You Think," Zvi Bodie and Rachelle Taqqu
 go through - in my opinion - another Death of Equities-like recitation. I won‟t discuss the article
 in depth, but I will point out some of its illogicalities:

 It says "despite the assurances of the financial industry, stocks are always a risky
 investment." This isn‟t very helpful. The outlook for stocks is always uncertain, perhaps
 even risky, but it‟s essential to note that they aren‟t always equally risky. They‟re riskier

 when valuations are high and prices embody great optimism, and they‟re much less risky
 when the reverse is true (see 1979).

 It says "the longer you hold [stocks], the better your chances of getting blindsided by a
 downturn." I find this highly misleading. The longer you do anything, the better the chance
 that something bad will happen. But that doesn‟t mean you shouldn‟t do it, or that it‟s safer
 to do it for just a short time. Maybe the participant for a short period will time it just wrong
 and run straight into a bad patch. And maybe by holding stocks for just a short time he‟ll
 miss out on the long-term benefits. The question isn‟t whether something bad can happen to
 the long-term investor in equities, but what‟s likely to happen overall, considering good times
 as well as bad. And whether, given his particular circumstances, an investor can survive the
 bad while waiting for the good to arrive.

 In deciding how much risk a prospective retiree can bear, the authors make reference to not
 wanting to see 2008-style losses of 30% to 40% ever again. But using the worst time in
 generations to argue against investing in stocks is no better than using the best time to argue
 for it. What matters isn‟t the best or worst possible outcome (or even the single most likely
 outcome). What matters is the range of outcomes and their respective probabilities and
 consequences. No one observation provides a very useful perspective.

 The strategy the authors spend the most time recommending is what‟s called a "zero-cost
 collar" where, for example, you buy an S&P 500 ETF at $136, buy a put at $116 (ensuring
 against losses beyond that) and get the money with which to buy the put by selling a call at
 $143 (giving up any gains above that). The good news is that one option pays for the other so
 the collaring is free, and that your downside is limited to 15%. But the bad news is that to go
 with your maximum loss of 15%, you have a maximum gain of 6%. I‟m not crazy about that
 tradeoff. The benefits of the strategy seem largely illusory and the posture excessively
 defensive.

 This article isn‟t without merit. My complaint is that it‟s simplistic - and the last thing that
 should be done regarding investing is to make it appear simple. It‟s also biased to the negative
 side at a time when stocks appear reasonably situated.

 Stocks have returned almost nothing over the last twelve years.
 For the first time, the 30-year return on stocks has been below the return on bonds.
 The price of the S&P 500 index is still 8% below its 2000 high, while its companies‟ earnings
 per share have nearly doubled over the intervening period.
 Thus the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 is in the low double digits, a substantial discount from the
 post-World War II norm and down from the low 30s at the peak.
 Just as in 1979, institutional investors have lost interest in equities and are looking
 increasingly to alternatives. The love affair with equities that ran from 1979 to 1999 seems to
 be over.
 Allocations to equities have been cut substantially in favor of bonds and alternatives. For
 example, according to What I Learned This Week of March 15, "The ICI reports that $408
 billion was redeemed from U.S. equity mutual funds between 2007 and 2011 and $792 billion
 was invested in U.S. bond funds in the same period."

 The story isn‟t as hopeless as it was in 1979, but it is uniformly negative. Thus, while I don‟t
 expect an equity rally anything like what followed on the heels of "The Death of Equities," I
 don‟t find it hard to conjure up positive scenarios.

 * * *

 The media usually gets it wrong, and the pieces that get the most attention tend to be highly
 sensational and to get it the most wrong. This is one of the many reasons why the deck is stacked
 against the average investor. "The Death of Equities" would have gotten you out or kept you out
 of the stock market at very attractive levels in 1979. Professor Siegel‟s work would have gotten
 you to increase your holdings at high prices in the 1990s. And this new article argues against
 stocks at a time when valuations are below average, investors have turned against them, and
 companies are doing well.

 The great irony here is that the extrapolator actually thinks he‟s being respectful of history: he‟s
 assuming continuation of a trend that has been underway. But the history that deserves his
 attention isn‟t the recent rise or fall of an asset‟s price, but rather the fact that most things
 eventually prove to be cyclical and tend to swing back from the extreme toward the mean.

 History amply demonstrates the tendency of investors and commentators alike to be
 pessimistic when the negatives collect, depressing prices, and optimistic when things are
 going well and prices are soaring. The lessons of history are highly instructive. Applying
 them isn't easy, but they mustn't be overlooked.


Memo: It’s All a Big Mistake.

Mistakes are a frequent topic of discussion in our world. It's not unusual to see investors
criticized for errors that resulted in poor performance. But rarely do we hear about mistakes as
an indispensible component of the investment process. I'm writing now to point out that
mistakes are all that superior investing is about. In short, in order for one side of a
transaction to turn out to be a major success, the other side has to have been a big mistake.
There's an old saying in poker that there's a "fish" (a sucker, or an unskilled player who's likely
to lose) in every game, and if you've played for an hour without having figured out who the fish
is, then it's you. Likewise, in every investment transaction you're part of, it's likely that
someone's making a mistake. The key to success is to not have it be you.

Usually a buyer buys an asset because he thinks it's worth more than the price he's paying. But
the seller sells the asset because he thinks the price he's getting exceeds its value. It's pretty safe
to say one of them has to be wrong. Strictly speaking, that doesn't have to be true, thanks to
differences in things like tax status, timeframe and investors' circumstances. But in general,
win/win transactions are much less common than win/lose transactions. When the dust has
settled after most trades, the buyer and seller are unlikely to be equally happy.

I consider it highly desirable to focus on the topic of investing mistakes. First, it serves as a
reminder that the potential for error is ever-present, and thus of the importance of mistake
minimization as a key goal. Second, if one side of every transaction is wrong, we have to ponder
why we should think it's not us. Third, then, it causes us to consider how to minimize the
probability of being the one making the mistake.

Investment Theory on Mistakes

According to the efficient market hypothesis, the efforts of motivated, intelligent, objective and
rational investors combine to cause assets to be priced at their intrinsic value. Thus there are no
mistakes: no undervalued bargains for superior investors to recognize and buy, and no over-
valuations for inferior investors to fall for. Since all assets are priced fairly, once bought at
fair prices they should be expected to produce fair risk-adjusted returns, nothing more and
nothing less. That's the source of the hypothesis's best-known dictum: you can't beat the
market.

I've often discussed this definition of market efficiency and its error. The truth is that while all
investors are motivated to make money (otherwise, they wouldn't be investing), (a) far from all
of them are intelligent and (b) it seems almost none are consistently objective and rational.

Rather, investors swing wildly from optimistic to pessimistic - and from over-confident to
terrified - and as a result asset prices can lose all connection with intrinsic value. In addition,
investors often fail to unearth all of the relevant information, analyze it systematically, and step
forward to adopt unpopular positions. These are some of the elements that give rise to what
are called "inefficiencies," academics' highfalutin word for "mistakes."

I absolutely believe that markets can be efficient - in the sense of "quick to incorporate
information" - but certainly they aren't sure to incorporate it correctly. Underpricings and
overpricings arise all the time. However, the shortcomings described in the paragraph just above
render those mispricings hard to profit from. While market prices are often far from "right," it's
nearly impossible for most investors to detect instances when the consensus has done a faulty job
of pricing assets, and to act on those errors. Thus theory is quite right when it says the market
can't be beat . . . certainly by the vast majority of investors.

People should engage in active investing only if they're convinced that (a) pricing mistakes
occur in the market they're considering and (b) they - or the managers they hire - are capable of
identifying those mistakes and taking advantage of them. Unless both of those things are true,
any time, effort, transaction costs and management fees expended on active management will be
wasted. Active management has to be seen as the search for mistakes.

Behavioral Sources of Investment Error

As described above, investment theory asserts that assets sell at fair prices, and thus there's no
such thing as superior risk-adjusted performance. But real-world data tells us that superior
performance does exist, albeit far from universally. Some people find it possible to buy things
for less than they're worth, at least on occasion. But doing so requires the cooperation of people
who're willing to sell things for less than they're worth. What makes them do that? Why do
mistakes occur? The new field of behavioral finance is all about looking into error stemming
from emotion, psychology and cognitive limitations.
If market prices were set by a "pricing czar" who was (1) tireless, (2) aware of all the facts, (3)
proficient at analysis and (4) thoroughly rational and unemotional, assets could always be priced
right based on the available information - never too low or too high. In the absence of that czar,
if a market were populated by investors fitting that description, it, too, could price assets
perfectly.

That's what the efficient marketers theorize, but it's just not the case. Very few investors satisfy
all four of the requirements listed above. And when they fail, particularly at number four - being
rational and unemotional - it seems they all err in the same direction at the same time. That's the
reason for the herd behavior that's behind bubbles and crashes, the biggest of all investment
mistakes.

According to the efficient market hypothesis, people study assets, assess their value and thereby
decide whether to buy or sell. Given its current value and the outlook for change in that value,
each asset's current price implies a prospective return and risk level. Market participants engage

in a continuous, instantaneous auction through which market prices are updated. The goal is to
set prices such that the relationship between each asset's potential return and risk - that is, its
prospective risk-adjusted return - is fair relative to all other assets.

Inefficiencies - mispricings - are instances when one asset offers a higher risk-adjusted return
than another. For example, A and B might seem equally risky, but A might appear to offer a
higher return than B. In that case, A is too cheap, and people will sell B (lowering its price,
raising its potential return and reducing its risk) and buy A (raising its price, lowering its
potential return and increasing its risk) until the risk-adjusted returns of the two are in line. That
condition is called "equilibrium."

It's one of the jobs of a functioning market to eliminate opportunities for extraordinary
profitability. Thus market participants want to sell overpriced assets and buy underpriced assets.
They just don't do so consistently.

Most investment error can be distilled to the failure to buy the things that are cheap (or to buy
enough of them) and to sell the things that are dear. Why do people fail in that way? Here are
just a few reasons:

 Bias or closed-mindedness - In theory, investors will shift their capital to anything that's
 cheap, correcting pricing mistakes. But in 1978, most investors wouldn't buy B-rated
 bonds - at any price - because doing so was considered speculative and imprudent. In
 1999, most investors refused to buy value stocks - also at any price - because they were
 deemed to lack the world-changing potential of technology stocks. Prejudices like these
 prevent valuation disparities from being closed.

 Capital rigidity - In theory, investors will move capital out of high-priced assets and into
 cheap ones. But sometimes, investors are condemned to buy in a market even though
 there are no bargains or to sell even at giveaway prices. In 2000, in venture capital, there
 was "too much money chasing too few deals." In 2008, CLOs receiving margin calls had
 no choice but to sell loans at bankruptcy prices. Rigidities like these create mispricings.

 Psychological excesses - In theory, investors will sell assets when they get too rich in a
 bubble or buy assets when they get cheap enough in a crash. But in practice, investors
 aren't all that cold-blooded. They can fail to sell, for example, because of an
 unwarranted excess of optimism over skepticism, or an excess of greed over fear.
 Psychological forces like greed, fear, envy and hubris permit mispricings to go
 uncorrected . . . or become more so.

 Herd behavior - In theory, market participants are willing to buy or sell an asset if its
 price gets out of line. But sometimes there are more buyers for something than sellers (or
 vice versa), regardless of price. This occurs because of most investors' inability to
 diverge from the pack, especially when the behavior of the pack is being rewarded in the
 short run.

The foregoing goes a long way to support Yogi Berra's observation that "In theory there is no
difference between theory and practice. In practice there is."

Theory has no answer for the impact of these forces. Theory assumes investors are clinical,
unemotional and objective, and always willing to substitute a cheap asset for a dear one. In
practice, there are numerous reasons why one asset can be priced wrong - in the absolute
or relative to others - and stay that way for months or years. Those are mistakes, and
superior investment records belong to investors who take advantage of them consistently.

A Case In Point

Bruce Karsh and his distressed debt team have averaged returns of roughly 23% per year before
fees and 18% after fees for more than 23 years without any use of borrowed capital. All eighteen
of their funds have been profitable, and money-losing years have been quite scarce. I consider
this record nothing short of aberrant. You're simply not supposed to be able to make that
kind of return for that long, and especially without the use of leverage. Investing skill aside,
what made it possible?

 Is it because it's called "distressed debt"? That can't be it; there's nothing in a name.

 Is it because distressed debt is an undiscovered market niche? That can't be it either;
 distressed debt may have been little-known and under-appreciated when we raised our
 first fund in 1988. But there can't be many institutional investors who haven't heard of
 distressed debt by now; certainly the secret's out.

 Can it be because people are unwilling to venture into the sordid world of default and
 bankruptcy? That might have been the case in the 1980s, but today most investors will
 do anything to make a buck.

So, then, why? I think it's largely a matter of mistakes.

At our London client conference in April, I listened as Bob O'Leary, a co-portfolio manager of
our distressed debt funds, described his group's work as follows: "Our business is often an
examination of flawed underwriting assumptions." In other words, it's their raison d'être to
profit from the mistakes of others.

Hearing Bob put it that way gave me the immediate inspiration for this memo. The active
investor only achieves above average performance to the extent that he can identify and act on
mistakes others make. The opportunities invested in by our distressed debt funds are a glaring
example. What's the process through which the mistakes arise?

 The analysis performed by a company's management, or the due diligence performed by
 a prospective acquirer, understates the stresses to which a business will be subjected

 and/or overstates its ability to withstand them. Using Bob's terminology, they employ
 overly optimistic underwriting assumptions, particularly in good times.

 As a result, debt is piled on that turns out to be more than the company can service when
 things turn down.

 Just as companies and acquirers are often too optimistic in good times, debt holders tend
 to become too pessimistic in bad times. As a result, they become willing to sell the debt
 of financially distressed companies at prices that overstate the negatives and thus are too
 low, giving us the potential for superior returns with less-than-commensurate risk.

All three of these are foundational elements for success in distressed debt investing.

 The first two contribute to the creation of high-potential-return situations. If no one
 underestimated risk and thus overloaded capital structures with debt, there
 wouldn't be many defaults and bankruptcies. We call these lending decisions "the
 unwise extension of credit" or, alternatively, "stacking wood for the bonfire."

 And if no one panicked in response to negative developments and scary prospects,
 and thus sold out too cheaply, there would be no reason to expect higher risk-
 adjusted returns from distressed debt than from anything else.

Many of the biggest mistakes made in the business and investment worlds have to do with
cycles. People extrapolate uptrends and downtrends into eternity, whereas the truth is that trends
usually correct: rather than go well or poorly forever, most things regress to the mean. The
longer a trend has gone on - making it appear more permanent - the more likely it usually is that
the time for it to reverse is near. And the longer an uptrend goes on, the more optimistic, risk-
tolerant and aggressive most people become . . . just as they should be turning more cautious.

So, for example, when the economy is thriving and profits are rising, people conclude that
company operations should be expanded, acquisitions should be undertaken, and more debt can
be borne. That same bullishness causes providers of debt to bestow larger amounts of money on
weaker borrowers, at lower interest rates and with looser covenants. Thus cycles are big
sources of error, and pro-cyclical behavior is one of the biggest destroyers of capital.

The point here is that one of distressed debt investing's great advantages is that it embodies
an anti-error business model. Distressed debt investors . . .

 . . . almost never invest in companies where everything's going well and investors are
 enthralled; there's no such thing as a financially distressed company that everyone loves;

 . . . by definition rarely invest before the emergence of significant problems, hopefully
 meaning fewer negative surprises are left in the bag;

 . . . are in business to buy debt at significant discounts, often from forced or highly
 motivated sellers. "Distressed debt at par" is an oxymoron and, at least in theory,
 distressed debt investors are bargain hunters whose ardor rises as prices fall . . . not the
 reverse like so many other investors.

It's not that distressed debt investors can't make mistakes; just that their likelihood of
doing so is reduced by the very nature of their investment activity. Anything that decreases
an investor's chance of erring - even an involuntary safety mechanism - works to his
advantage.

Distressed debt is, by definition, an area where:

 borrowers and lenders have made grave mistakes,
 at least some of those mistakes have come to light, and
 the stress, unpleasantness and uncertainty that attend a downturn often make debt holders
 sell out at the wrong time and price.

In other words, it's an area where negativism and error are crystallized, maximized and
magnified. And nothing is more likely to make an asset too cheap than excessively negative
psychology.

When we're out raising a new fund, investors often ask whether people have wised up such that
they'll no longer make these mistakes. Thus far the answer has been no, and in fact there's no
reason to believe there's been any progress at all up the learning curve. The proof? The
distressed debt opportunities that built up in 2005-07 and flowered in the crisis of 2008 were
some of the best we've ever encountered, and certainly the most plentiful.

One Classic Mistake

I want to take this occasion to touch on a favorite thought of mine. Investing consists of just one
thing: choosing which assets to hold in order to profit in the future. Thus there's no getting away
from the need to make decisions concerning the future.

In deciding which future to prepare for, you need two things: (a) an opinion about what's likely
to happen and (b) a view on the probability that your opinion is right. Everyone knows about the
former, but I think relatively few think about the latter.

In short, most people believe in their opinions. "Of course they do," you might say. "If they
didn't have faith in their opinions, they wouldn't hold them." And that's the point. Everyone's
entitled to his or her opinion. But one of our favorite sayings around Oaktree states that
"it's one thing to have an opinion, and something very different to act as if it's right."

Clearly, our opinions are our opinions because we believe them. (We rarely hear anyone say
"Here's what I think, and I'm probably wrong.") But just as clearly, we believe (or should
believe) more in some of our opinions than others. The probability of being right about the

weather tomorrow in California, a B-rated bond issuer paying its debts, and Greece being part of
the European Union in three years is different in each case. Few people would take issue with
that.

If that's true, the reliance we place on each prediction - and the action we take in that reliance -
should vary. Yet, as I see it, most people who believe in forecasting come up with their
opinions and then act on them with equal amounts of confidence. This is one of the
greatest sources of investment error.

It's perfectly okay to say you don't know something. It's also okay to say you have a view on
what might happen but you're not so sure you're right. In that case you're likely to moderate
your actions and emerge intact even if you turn out to be wrong. As Mark Twain put it, "It ain't
what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so."
Or as Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin told the 1999 graduating class of the University of
Pennsylvania, ". . . understanding the difference between certainty and likelihood can make all
the difference." Forecasting error is much less likely to prove fatal in the absence of excess
conviction.

I've mentioned before the frequency with which I feel I come across a particularly apt quote just
when I need it for a memo in the making. Thus I'll close this section with one on the present
subject from Yaser Anwar's "Exclusivo Listserv" of May 29:

 . . . while every one well knows himself to be fallible, few . . . admit the
 supposition that any opinion, of which they feel very certain, may be one of the
 examples of the error to which they acknowledge themselves to be liable. (John
 Stuart Mill, "On Liberty," 1859)

In other words, nearly everyone accepts that his or her opinion might be wrong . . . just not this
time.

A Big Mistake in the News

A vast amount of ink and airtime is being devoted to the subject of JP Morgan's loss of multiple
billions of dollars in its effort to hedge credit risk. People - and especially politicians - have
seized on the loss to prove that Jamie Dimon isn't perfect and bank regulation is inadequate.

Clearly, JP Morgan made a mistake - or more than one. Jamie Dimon has described the hedge
as "poorly designed," "sloppy" and "a terrible, egregious mistake." How could that be the case -
and how could the result be such an enormous loss - in a field as inherently defensive as
hedging? The answer's simple: as Charlie Munger once said to me about investing, "It's not
supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid." The truth is, it's hard to get it all right
all the time, and that's just as true of hedging as it is of investing.

Hedging sounds easy: you own something, so you sell something to lessen the impact if your
investment performs badly. But there are lots of ways to be wrong.

 Hedging with the wrong thing. Let's say you own some A but don't want to suffer the
 full impact if its price declines. Why not just sell short an equal amount of A to hedge?
 The answer is that owning A and simultaneously shorting A is the same as not owning
 anything. The long and short positions exactly offset each other, meaning you can't
 make (or lose) any money. That's not hedging, that's negating.

 You want to dampen fluctuations, not eliminate them. So you hedge by selling short
 something you think will move in sympathy with A, but not exactly. The hope is that by
 doing it very well, you can eliminate more of the risk of loss than you do of the potential
 for gain. That's the meaning of a "positive arbitrage."

 Buying Ford stock and simultaneously shorting Ford accomplishes nothing. So perhaps
 you buy Ford and short General Motors, which you think will perform less well, going up
 less than Ford or down more. But by transacting in two different assets, you by definition
 introduce the possibility of an unfavorable divergence. This is called "basis risk." In
 short, it's the risk that the behavior of the two assets relative to each other will differ from
 what you expected. For example, Ford goes down, giving you a loss, but rather than go
 down in sympathy (which would give you an offsetting gain on the short position), a
 favorable development at GM makes it go up, compounding your loss as the hedge goes
 against you.

 Hedging in the wrong amount. You hold 1,000 Ford shares, and you think that - given
 their likely relative performance - you should short 500 GM shares to hedge your risk.
 But it turns out that while they move in opposite directions, their relative movements
 aren't what you expected. Thus you either hedged too much (and thus you lose more on
 the hedge than you make on the underlying position) or you hedged too little (so the
 protection you sought doesn't materialize). There's no sure way to choose the right
 "hedge ratio."

 Time risk. The two sides of the position may work as you expect, but not when you
 expect. Thus the hedge may fail to work in the short run, meaning the loss on one side of
 the hedge may occur before the gain on the other, in which case you'll look flat-out
 wrong for a while. And if you're required (by regulation, margin call, capital
 withdrawals, etc.) to close out the position at that point, the result could be quite negative.

 Insufficient liquidity. If conditions or goals change, you might want to adjust or remove
 your hedge. But market developments in terms of liquidity might make it impossible to
 alter one or both sides of the position.

In other words, hedging consists of an attempt to cede some potential gain in exchange for a
greater reduction in potential loss. It's a very reasonable course of action. But it doesn't
necessarily have to work.

In attempting to set up effective hedges, there's little choice but to extrapolate past relationships
between things. If they could be counted on to persist unchanged, there'd be little risk of being

wrong about which asset to hedge with, how much to hedge, or whether the two sides of the
hedge will move simultaneously. But, just like everyone else in the investment world, would-be
hedgers must understand that relationships that held in the past can't be counted on to hold in the
future.

And let's remember, as The New York Times wrote on May 26, "Yes, Morgan lost big - but, as
Mitt Romney has pointed out, someone else won." That's the bottom line on all investing.
There's generally a right side and a wrong side to every investment. Which will you be on?

 * * *

Risk control isn't an action so much as it is a mindset. It stems largely from putting at least as
much emphasis on avoiding mistakes as on doing great things.

Risk control - and consistent success in investing - requires an understanding of the fact that
high returns don't just come along for the picking; others must create them for us by making
mistakes. And looked at that way, we'll do a better job if we force ourselves to understand the
mistake we think is being made, and why.

Risk control requires that we avoid the analytical and psychological errors to which others
succumb.

In particular, risk control requires that we temper our belief in our opinions with acceptance of
our fallibility.

In the end, superior investing is all about mistakes . . . and about being the person who
profits from them, not the one who commits them.


Memo: On Uncertain Ground.

The world seems more uncertain today than at any other time in my life. That's a simple
sentence but one with significant implications. And it's not just me. Here's what The New York
Times said on August 12 in an article about John Bogle, the founder of Vanguard:

 "It's urgent that people wake up," he says. This is the worst time for investors
 that he has ever seen - and after 60 years in the business, that's saying a lot. . . .
 "The economy has clouds hovering over it," Mr. Bogle says. "And the financial
 system has been damaged. The risk of a black-swan event - of something
 unlikely but apocalyptic - is small, but it's real."

I'm going to devote this memo to the uncertainty in the world and the investment environment
and then offer my take on the appropriate strategy response. This will require me to touch on a
large number of topics, but I will try to dwell less than usual on each of them. If after reading
this memo you find yourself hungry for more, you might go back to "What Worries Me" (August
28, 2008) and "The Long View" (January 9, 2009).

The Macro-Economic Setting

It's my belief that we're going to see relatively sluggish economic growth in the U.S. for a
prolonged period of time. My expectations for other developed nations, given their specific
issues, are even less positive. (This is a good time for my typical reminder that I am not an
economist, and far from all of my observations would be supported by that fraternity. And
please note that one of the key tenets of Oaktree's investment philosophy dictates that our
investing will not be governed by macro forecasts. We say it's one thing to have an opinion on
the macro, but something very different to act as if it's correct. I urge you to consider adopting a
similar attitude toward all macro forecasts, especially mine.)

Around 2008 or '09, I had a visit from a senator looking - surprise! - for a campaign
contribution. I suppose to make conversation, he asked if I could assure him we were headed for
a vigorous recovery. "Forget vigorous," I told him. "I'm hoping for lackluster." I haven't
changed my tune.

There's a very human tendency to think things will stay as they are, and if they change, that
they'll revert to what we're used to. Most people think of economic growth as the norm; after
all, that's been the general rule during our lifetimes. In fact, the global economy has grown
nicely for hundreds of years. That's something "everyone knows." But how many people think
about where economic growth comes from, and whether it's naturally occurring and inevitable?

Economic growth doesn't just happen. Its vigor depends on a combination of population gains, a
conducive infrastructure, positive aspiration and profit motive, advances in technology and
productivity, and benign exogenous developments. In many ways and to varying degrees, I think
the future for these things in the U.S. is less good than it was in the past. The birthrate is down;
our infrastructure is out of date; it's uncertain whether technology can add as much to
productivity in the future as it has in the recent past (but perhaps it always is); and mobility up
the income curve has stagnated.

I think a lot about the role of deficit spending and credit. In the forty or so years leading up
to the crisis of 2008, consumers could grow their spending faster than their incomes because of
the increasing availability of credit (and their increasing willingness to make use of it).
Likewise, generous capital markets greatly facilitated deficit spending on the part of
governments. Economic units around the world were able to spend money they didn't have and
thus buy things they couldn't afford. This made a big contribution to economic growth, but few
people recognized the negative implications: increased leverage, increased dependency on the
continued generosity of the capital markets, and thus increased precariousness. In other words,
unwise behavior in the short run led directly to problems in the long run. This is a normal aspect
of the economic process.

Few debtors can tap the capital markets today to the same extent they could five or ten years ago.
In a radical turn of events, lenders now appear to care about borrowers' ability to repay, and they
find some of their customers less than creditworthy. Since almost no borrowers actually have the
ability to pay off their debts, this has led to credit difficulties ranging from home foreclosures, to
municipal bankruptcies in the U.S., to debt crises in peripheral Europe.

American consumers seem to have concluded that they should owe less (or have found that they
can't borrow as much). For whatever reason, the savings rate has risen, suggesting a decline in
the propensity to spend all one makes and more. All around the world, there's movement on the
part of borrowers - sometimes voluntary and sometimes involuntary - toward austerity (reducing
the excess of spending over incomes) or even delevering (spending less than you make and using
the surplus to pay down debt).

These trends are healthy for individual borrowers' balance sheets, but they imply reduced
consumption and thus are negative for GDP growth. If everyone does these things at the same
time, the results can be quite contractionary. Regardless of how you look at it, less use of
consumer credit implies less economic growth.

The other specific element that gives me pause relates to confidence. Psychology plays a
huge role - perhaps a dominant and self-fulfilling one - in influencing economic growth. In
short, if people think things will be good in the future, they'll spend and invest, and things will
be good. But if they turn pessimistic regarding the future and go into their shells, refusing to
spend and invest, growth will slow down.

Consumers were traumatized by the crisis of 2008: laid off, forced out of their houses, made
poorer by market declines, and denied credit. Those who didn't feel these influences directly

were still pounded by headlines trumpeting economic weakness, the collapse of financial
institutions, the need for bailouts, and malfeasance in the banking and mortgage industries. It
could require significant healing before these influences abate.

Much of an economy's resilience comes from what economists call "animal spirits": the
bullishness that drives things upward when people's innate optimism, acquisitiveness and
tendency to forget harsh lessons are sparked by some bits of good economic news. Right now,
with animal spirits largely in hibernation, a reversal of the crisis's trauma may not come easy.
But that doesn't mean there won't be one. The U.S. consumer has a tendency to surprise on the
upside.

Business investment plays a key role in economic recovery. When managers conclude that
consumers are about to resume spending after a downturn, they hire workers and invest in new
equipment in order to meet the increased demand they believe is coming. Yet the current
recovery has seen little in this regard. I think the prevailing attitude has been, "Let's see how far
we can stretch our current capacity before spending to expand it." Or as I heard on the radio the
other day, in a report on productivity gains, "Businesses continue to do more with less." Thus
companies have built cash hoards, not productive capacity.

Much of this has been attributed to uncertainty on the part of executives concerning the business
environment. In contrast to the preceding 28 years of pro-business and pro-free market
administrations under Presidents Reagan, Bush, Clinton and Bush, today many business people
detect antipathy - or, at minimum, indifference - on the part of the Obama administration, in
which the private sector is little represented. In addition, there is uncertainty and anxiety
regarding the outlook for the economy, regulation and taxes. All of these things have deterred
expansion.

Most recently, concern has shifted to the "fiscal cliff" - the combination of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that will go into effect at the beginning of 2013 if nothing is done
before then by the seemingly gridlocked government (more on this later). Finally, most business
people probably want Mitt Romney to be the next president, but he's behind in the polls. The
sum of these doubts is contributing to the sluggish expansion we're seeing. (Of course, one of
these days deferred spending could give way to invigorated investment in capacity.)

It's easy to view problems like these as insoluble and part of a self-feeding vicious circle. When
people who are overly indebted reduce their spending, their collective action weakens the
economy. The weak economy discourages businesses from hiring and expanding, and thus it
stays weak. It's essential, however, to remember that it can be just as wrong to see things as
hopeless as it is to consider an environment risk-free. One mustn't overreact in either
direction.

Potential economic pluses do exist, and they tend to be overlooked in downcast periods like
today. These include the incipient housing recovery; the possibility of energy self-sufficiency;
the fact that U.S. manufacturing has slimmed down and our Chinese competitors have seen costs
rise; and the fact that the U.S. still leads in higher education, creativity and entrepreneurship.

For me, the bottom line of all this is that we aren't looking at a period of prosperity. A recovery
is underway and is likely to continue, but it is more likely to be lackluster than vigorous. Most
Americans' financial memory consists of V-shaped recoveries and periods of good feeling like
the 1990s, when they couldn't think of reasons not to borrow and spend. Five years from now, I
think people will still be asking, "When will the economy get going? When will we get back to
good times?"

Black Swans, Landmines and Long-Term Problems

In addition to this unexciting general outlook, I (like most others) can reel off a litany of current
and potential problems like I've never seen before. Each one deserves a memo, but - as I said -
I'm trying to be economical with your time and attention.

 Europe represents a problem of enormous proportions, huge risk and limitless
 uncertainty. The nations and banks of Europe - and especially Portugal, Italy, Ireland,
 Greece and Spain (the PIIGS) - partook liberally of the excessive ability to borrow
 described above. They squandered the proceeds in a variety of ways, ranging from
 excessive benefit programs for citizens to ill-fated investments. They owe amounts they
 can't ever repay and will have trouble servicing in times of economic weakness. They'll
 be forced to spend less in the period ahead, but that will further weaken their economies
 and add to the pain felt by their citizens. The results have included unrest and may
 continue to do so. And yet - despite attempts at austerity and delevering - in many
 countries the ratio of total public and private debt to GDP is now greater than it was five
 years ago (according to Jamil Baz of GLG Partners).

 People ask all the time what will happen in Europe. I tell them the situation is
 enormously complex, murky and uncertain, but I'm absolutely sure of three things: (a) I
 don't know, (b) nobody knows, and (c) if you ask an expert for advice and follow it,
 you'll probably be making a mistake.

 When people invest in an Oaktree fund, it's on the basis of a limited partnership
 agreement that spends a few pages on what we're going to do and dozens more on things
 like the rules we'll follow and what happens if we don't. I get the impression that in the
 case of the European Union, politicians wrote the first section based on glowing hopes
 but forgot about the rest. When faced with conditions like these, in my view, there's
 absolutely no alternative to saying we have no idea what the future holds. Period.

 Since the nuts and bolts stuff was omitted, there's no schematic diagram or instruction
 manual for Europe. There are no procedures for ensuring nations don't run excessive
 deficits, or for moving a member state out of the European Union. Any actions that are
 taken will require unanimous decisions on the part of elected officials from nations with
 divergent interests. Taking all of this together, I feel there can be no certainty about:

 o what should be done to fix the problem,
 o what can be done,

 o what will be done, and
 o what the ramifications will be, especially the second-order consequences.

 I imagine Europe's leaders will muddle through, continuing to do the absolute minimum
 that suffices at the last possible moment. There will be palliatives, but solutions will be
 hard to achieve (the latter would require the nations of Europe to significantly surrender
 sovereignty). Last week the European Central Bank announced a program of bond
 buying, and this was viewed positively. Buying bonds will keep borrowing costs down
 for as long as it's practiced, but it won't solve the problems. The important tasks facing
 the peripheral nations are much greater: cutting deficits and policing them, reducing the
 excessive debt burden that was allowed to build up, and restoring growth and
 competitiveness. Thus the problem is likely to drag on for years, assuming it doesn't
 flare up into a global crisis. Everyone hopes Europe will do what's needed, but hope
 isn't much of a plan.

 The U.S. fiscal situation is less acute, less immediate, and easier to duck given that we
 can print the world's reserve currency . . . but little better. In fact, in some ways it is
 more dangerous because the problems are more back-end loaded and perhaps less overt.

 Our politicians, too, used easy money to give everyone everything: generous benefit
 programs as well as significant tax reductions (and major stimulus programs when
 needed). Entitlements, interest and other mandatory expenditures consume all of the
 taxes collected; forget about the rest of government spending - on things like defense,
 education, transportation and scientific research. We face huge annual deficits and
 ballooning national debt.

 As an aside, one reason our deficit situation isn't worse today is the ultra-low level of
 interest rates, which constitute a tremendous subsidy of the government by savers. Even
 with these low rates, interest on the federal debt consumes roughly 10% of all federal
 taxes collected. Imagine what the deficit would be if the 10-year Treasury note were at
 7% rather than less than 2%.

 Entitlement programs are the biggest problem, primarily Medicare (healthcare for the
 elderly), Medicaid (healthcare for the poor) and Social Security (retirement benefits).
 Politicians in years gone by granted benefits without much thought to the rate at which
 they would grow and where the money to pay them would come from. Benefits have
 been expanded or indexed to inflation, and the post-war Baby Boomers, with their much-
 increased life expectancies, are bound to create an incredible burden; the national debt of
 $16 trillion is dwarfed by unfunded future benefits, the present value of which is
 variously estimated at an additional $50-90 trillion.

 We have problems at the state and local level, in addition to the federal. The federal
 government is pushing burdens off to states and reducing funding; at the same time the
 soft economy is cutting into state and local tax collections and increasing citizens' needs.
 I recently read about a city that had to choose between policemen, firemen and teachers
 for the layoffs through which to balance its budget. In other words, the city has been

 providing a level of services that it can't afford. Painful austerity is unavoidable; neither
 firemen, policemen nor teachers can be easily dispensed with. Also, for years state and
 local politicians have promised public employees retirement and health benefits without
 regard for how they would be paid. Pension plans that are currently underfunded by $1-3
 trillion represent a ticking time bomb. We've seen a spate of municipal bankruptcies this
 year, and I believe more are coming.

 The depressing state of politics deserves special mention among the problems we face.
 Having acted in the past to create unfunded, ballooning benefit burdens, politicians -
 albeit a new crop - now largely refuse to agree on action to reduce them. And no one
 seems to be penalized for failing to find a solution.

 Just as the need for unanimity will frustrate Europe's attempts to solve its problems, U.S.
 politicians seem to value things like "ideological purity" (i.e., toeing the party line) and
 being reelected above real attempts at problem solving. They say they want to solve the
 deficit problem, but tax increases are off limits for many; cuts in entitlements are
 anathema for others; there isn't enough discretionary spending left to cut in order to solve
 the problem; and "compromise" has become a dirty word.

 In 2010 a group of active and retired politicians - the Simpson-Bowles Commission -
 was asked to come up with a solution. Eleven of the eighteen members supported a
 responsible proposal including, of course, some pain, but there wasn't the fourteen-vote
 supermajority needed to formally endorse it. Congress and the White House let it die of
 inattention. Despite the enormous danger presented by our current and future deficits,
 too few were willing to touch matters representing the "third rail" of American politics.

 Of course, it's not just the politicians. Many voters say they prefer elected officials who
 will refuse to "desert their principles" (that is, compromise with the other side in pursuit
 of a solution). While some voters may understand the risk presented by entitlement
 programs, most reject any reduction of their own benefits.

 Paul Ryan, the Republican nominee for vice president, is a "fiscal wonk" who cares about
 the deficit and has a "Ryan Roadmap" to shrink it. Here's what he says on the subject:

 Washington has not been telling you the truth. If we don't reform
 spending on government health and retirement programs, we have zero
 hope of getting our spending - and as a result our debt crisis - under
 control. (The New York Times, August 12, 2012)

 Ryan was chosen for the ticket because his hawkishness on the deficit and overall
 conservatism were expected to appeal to the Republican "base." But ironically, Ryan's
 interest in reforming entitlements may constitute a disadvantage on the campaign trail,
 requiring some serious backtracking. Too many people simply vote their wallets: self-
 interest usually trumps ideology. While we can disagree with Ryan's approach, we
 should applaud the rare politician who is willing to tackle this unpopular subject.

 Given the way "inflation hawks" on the Federal Reserve Board resist stimulating the
 economy when a recovery is underway, there's concern over the ability to count on
 further stimulus. However, I expect the Fed to keep interest rates low for a prolonged
 period of time and/or undertake other stimulus actions. Recent statements from
 Chairman Bernanke leave little doubt on this subject. On the other hand, just as I think a
 lot of economics is determined by psychology, so do I believe a lot of the impact of
 stimulus programs is psychological. Interest rate cuts, and bond buying programs like
 QE, have shock value when first announced, but I think it diminishes over time. In the
 end, it's not easy to make an economy grow when people aren't thinking expansively.

 Today's low interest rates, engineered by the central banks, mean that investors are
 consigned to doing business in a low-return world. Interest rates near zero on T-bills,
 and yields of 1-3% on Treasury notes and bonds, set the base from which the prospective
 returns on investments entailing risk are established. And because that floor is so low
 today, even with healthy risk premiums added, the absolute prospective return on many
 investments isn't nearly what it was in the past.

 The long-term competitive position of the U.S. is threatened by our deteriorating
 infrastructure in areas like education, healthcare and transportation (as well as trends
 that are enabling other nations to catch up to us in these regards). These are things that
 made America great following World War II, but there seems to be little will (or money)
 to restore them to previous levels.

 In my view, growing income inequality is a significant problem. The difference in
 incomes between those at the top and those at the bottom has risen dramatically, and the
 ability of those at the bottom to move up the chain has declined. Tax rates applied to
 income on capital (capital gains and dividends) have been cut relative to those on labor.
 Finally, everyone knows more than ever about how well the people at the top are doing.
 A lot of America's economic success has stemmed from the fact that people in the lower
 income brackets felt the system would allow them to move up through hard work. To the
 extent that becomes less true - and the outlook today is guarded, especially given the low
 quality of public education - there can be negative ramifications for society overall.

 The world of today seems full of intractable challenges. Think about the list of actual
 and potential problem areas: Iraq, Afghanistan, Iran, Israel/Palestine, Syria, Pakistan,
 North Korea, and occasional flare-ups in former Soviet republics. In contrast, the period
 from the fall of the Berlin Wall (1989) and the USSR (1991) up until the attacks on
 September 11, 2001 seems like a halcyon one largely free of conflicts considered capable
 of destabilizing the world. The comparison is stark and troubling.

 The last big element of uncertainty on my list is the outlook for China. In the years
 leading up to today, what characterized China?

 o underused resources, largely human, and low manufacturing costs,
 o an economy directed centrally, not by free market forces,
 o rapidly growing financial resources,

 o a strong desire for economic growth and industrialization in order to move the
 population to the cities and upward in economic terms,
 o the need to respond to the global financial crisis of 2008 and the non-performing
 loans it produced,
 o an expectation that manufacturing would expand without limit as China supplied
 goods to nations around the world as well as its own growing consumer class, and
 o resulting certainty that China couldn't miss.

 The upshot of all of the above was massive provision of capital in order to advance
 China's economic development and urbanization. State-owned enterprises were created
 and expanded, and infrastructure building was accelerated. Residential construction, in
 particular, took place at an elevated rate.

 This may have been yet another instance where too much money led to bad capital
 allocation decisions. China's modern era had seen only growth, not cycles of boom and
 bust. Even when the central government wanted to rein in the rate of building, local
 governments - which derive a lot of their revenue from sales of land for development -
 were not similarly motivated. Chinese individuals faced very limited options for
 investing their capital: bank interest was below the rate of inflation and thus negative in
 real terms, and foreign investment was prohibited. This combination drove large-scale
 investment into either properties or savings products known as "trusts," the proceeds of
 which flowed into fixed asset development. Thus the process went out of control. Good
 intentions around urbanization and infrastructure development fell victim to massive
 speculative capital flows. The consequence was excessive fixed investment.

 (One great way for authorities or central bankers to stimulate an economy is by providing
 capital for residential construction. This results in increased employment and spending
 on materials and components. When the economy heats up in response, however, a
 housing bubble often ensues. Home prices rise and speculative buying follows. The only
 thing missing is end-buyers for the unneeded or unaffordable homes. It's particularly
 interesting to note that excess residential investment contributed in a major way to the
 recent problems in China, Ireland, Spain and the U.S. In all four countries "Potemkin
 villages" of new homes grew up, suggesting economic vigor . . . but standing empty.)

 In China's case, capital wasn't withdrawn by external lenders. Rather, the central
 planners decided it was time to reduce stimulus. In this way leverage would be reduced,
 the rate of fixed asset investment would ease, and the economy would be kept from
 overheating and inflating. However, as has been seen throughout history, planned
 economies tend to defy the planners, and cycles are hard to modulate.

 China's economic growth has slowed, and living with declining growth has turned out to
 be no easier in China than elsewhere. Worldwide economic weakness and cost-
 advantage-eroding inflation have reduced the demand for Chinese exports, a main prop
 supporting China's economy. It has been made clear that (a) internal consumption isn't
 enough to give China's economy the growth it needs and thus (b) China isn't without

 dependence on the rest of the world. It has yet to be determined whether China's
 landing will be soft or hard.

 And if China lands hard - in part because of weak demand from the rest of the
 world - will its weakness feed back, further weakening those nations from which
 China buys raw materials and finished goods? The world's economy is complex,
 interrelated and interdependent. China is a major example of this and, at this moment, a
 contributor to worldwide uncertainty.

So what do we find? Economic fragility throughout the world, I think, as well as a number of
factors capable of exacerbating the situation in the short run or keeping it weak in the long. I
can't remember a time when no jurisdiction was considered completely safe for investment, but
that seems to be the case today. When people enthuse about the U.S., it's usually only in relative
terms: "the best house on a bad block."

At the University of Chicago in the 1960s, I was taught that U.S. Treasury bills paid the "risk-
free rate of return." Nowadays most investors have trouble thinking of anything as riskless.
When I talk to investors, most of them snicker uncomfortably about the proposition of even U.S.
Treasurys being entirely safe.

Is There No Good News?

Isn't there anything on the positive side of the ledger, capable of balancing against the weak
fundamental picture described above and making investment attractive? A few things deserve
mention, I think.

The first is the possibility that things won't turn out to be as bad as I describe. Because of
the impact of psychology on people's thought processes, it often turns out that things aren't as
bad (or as good) as they seemed at the extremes. But since I'm not a big believer in macro
forecasting, I don't believe there's a way to prove that my negativism isn't fully warranted.

The second is the fact that asset prices are reasonable in many cases, at least relative to
other investments or to history.

 In 1999, when everyone was unworried, the S&P 500 traded at more than 30 times
 earnings. Today the p/e ratio has more than halved, and it is well below the post-World
 War II average. In addition, dividend and earnings yields on equities are unusually
 favorable relative to the yields on bonds. There's no doubt that stocks have cheapened
 relative to historic parameters - although the case can also be made that they aren't cheap
 enough, since future growth is unlikely to be at the historic rate.

 Yield spreads on high yield bonds relative to Treasurys are at levels that historically have
 been considered generous and have consistently given rise to subsequent returns well
 above those on Treasurys. In other words, the reward for accepting credit risk via high
 yield bonds is at a level that in the past has more than compensated for the credit risk

 entailed. Although there's far less historic data, the same seems true of senior loans and
 mezzanine debt.

 Real estate prices have corrected from the peak of 5-6 years ago and are largely back to
 the pre-bubble levels of a decade ago. Residential real estate prices are well down from
 the peak, and the same is true for commercial real estate in all but a half dozen first-tier
 cities.

And why is this true? Because of the third factor: investor psychology that is much curtailed
from pre-crisis levels. This is very healthy from a buyer's point of view.

The Psychological Environment

These are uncertain times - there's no doubt about it. The macro outlook is quite unclear, and
the level of investor confidence is commensurately low. This reminds me of something that
happened - in the larger, non-investment world - eleven years ago this week.

I was in New York on 9/11, and I experienced the uncertainty, fear and confusion firsthand.
When I finally got to California several days later, I sat down with my son Andrew, then
fourteen years old, to make sure he was okay given what had transpired. He asked me, with his
usual perceptiveness, "Dad, is the world less safe than it used to be?" The right answer came to
me: "Maybe it's less safe than it used to be . . . and maybe it was never as safe as people thought
it was." Similarly, the macro future seems far more uncertain today than at any time in my
experience, but there's a good chance it was never as certain as people thought.

In the 1980s and '90s, everything went right. Economic growth was strong. Companies thrived.
There were great gains in productivity and technology. Profits rose dramatically. Interest rates
declined. Inflation was quiescent. Equities soared. Houses and 401k accounts appreciated,
producing a positive "wealth effect." The world was largely at peace. All of this contributed to
positive psychology, feeding back to further spur economic strength in a classic virtuous circle.
Was this a period in which favorable outcomes were entirely dependable, or just one in which
the underlying processes met up with good luck, producing favorable outcomes? And if the
latter, were the results better than people should have expected to continue?

Regardless, people did extrapolate them. When stocks returned 20% a year in the 1990s, rather
than the normal 10%, investors ratcheted up their return expectations for the subsequent years,
and with them their allocations to equities. Everyone knows that if you reach into a bag
containing both black and white balls and pull out ten white ones in a row, the probability
has increased that the next one will be black. But in the investment world, events like that
serve to convince people that there are only white balls - favorable outcomes - in the bag.
That's part of the illogical, emotional thinking that makes for bull markets and bubbles.
So by the time the late 1990s rolled around, many investors had concluded that the world was a
benign place in which profits were inevitable. That is, that there was little risk or uncertainty.

It's my firm belief that the riskiest thing in the investing world is widespread belief that
there's no risk. Usually that dangerous condition stems from excessive conviction that the
future is knowable and known . . . and benign. Today there's very little of that. I think
that's a substantial positive.

It was one of the outstanding characteristics of the pre-crisis period of 2005-07 that most people
were sure they completely understood (a) what made the economy work, (b) what the world
would look like in five or ten years, and (c) how things could be fixed if problems arose. Today
very few people feel that way. There's nothing pleasant about the transition from feeling you
know something to realizing you don't.

But the risk in an activity doesn't stem just from the activity itself, but from how people
approach it. When equipment is developed that makes mountain climbing safer, people change
their behavior in ways that make it more risky. Equally, much of the risk in investing stems not
from securities, companies or exchanges, but from investor behavior. In short, risk is low when
investors behave prudently and high when they don't.

A world that's perceived as safe can be rendered unsafe if the perception of safety causes
investors to move out the risk curve, bid up prices, or take actions that assume greater certainty
than turns out to be the case. I think that perfectly describes the years leading up to the crisis.
Conversely, an uncertain world can be safer than people perceive if their concern causes
them to behave cautiously (and especially if it causes them to sell down assets to prices from
which the likelihood of further declines is reduced). Certainly few people in the world today
are oblivious to the litany of outstanding negatives.

Please note, however, that while investor ardor and risk-blindness are at reassuringly low
levels today - and that may be the best single thing that can be said for the current
environment - the actions of central banks to minimize interest rates have served to force
investors out on the risk curve in search of return. They may not be blind to the risks, but
many are participating in pro-risk activities nevertheless. I refer to these coerced participants
with a phrase from my late father-in-law, Sam Freeman: "handcuff volunteers."

The Role of Macro

These days we hear little about anything other than macro considerations. Security movements
are highly correlated, meaning investment returns are more a function of broad market
movements than individual security characteristics. And market movements are, in turn,
primarily in response to macro developments.

Thus investors believe more than ever that the route to investment success lies in correct
judgments about the macro future. This has given rise to so-called "risk-on, risk-off" investing,
consisting of investors' attempts to profit by increasing their risk exposure when they expect
favorable macro developments, and decreasing it when they foresee unfavorable developments.
Since macro events determine most of the results, it's on the macro that investors believe they
should spend their time.

I couldn't agree less. Playing the market in the short term based on macro forecasts is one
of the many things in investing that could add greatly to results if it could be done right . . .
but it can't, certainly not consistently.

The expected value from any activity is the product of the gains available from doing it right
multiplied by the probability of doing it right, minus the potential cost of failing in the attempt
multiplied by the probability of failing. Investors are often blinded by the potential gains from a
tactic and thus don't think much about the likelihood they can get it right. Because I think so
little of the ability to make correct forecasts - and especially of the ability to get the timing right
- I dismiss attempts to benefit from short-term macro judgments.

The best response when seas are choppy is to focus on completing the long-term voyage and
not think about whether the next wave is going to push the nose of the boat up or down.
Our investment destination is best reached by accurately valuing assets, assessing the
relationship between price and that value, and acting resolutely and unemotionally when
mispricings are detected. That's still the best - I think the only - reliable path to investment
success. Nothing about the current environment alters that one bit.

Some Thoughts on Strategy

While I don't believe in short-term tactical adjustments based on macro expectations, I do think
clients, portfolio managers and strategists should take macro conditions into account when
positioning portfolios for the medium term. And while I'm a big skeptic regarding forecasting, I
think we can't ignore the long-term secular outlook. (Is that an inconsistency? Absolutely!)

On January 10 of this year, I sent out a "clients-only" memo called "What Can We Do For
You?" It has since been posted to the website, and I hope you'll take a look at it. I said in that
memo that I had come up with three questions that might help in setting strategy.

 Do you expect prosperity or not? A simple, not-necessarily-precise judgment on this
 subject can strongly influence our choice of investment media and approach. As
 described at length above, it's my conclusion that we won't soon see a return to the
 prosperity of the pre-crisis years.

 Of the two main risks in investing, which should you worry about more today: the risk of
 losing money or the risk of missing opportunities? Certainly today's macro uncertainties
 argue for worrying about loss. But even as the low-return climate suggests we needn't
 give much thought to opportunity costs, the near-zero returns offered on the safest
 investments (and the moderate level of asset prices) argue for assuming some risk in the
 pursuit of a more satisfactory return.

 What kind of investing attributes should you employ today, aggressive or cautious? As
 above, I feel the pros and cons are balanced, and thus so should be our behavior.

On one hand, we face a lackluster general economic outlook and the threat of further negative
developments that could be impactful but hopefully are not overwhelmingly likely. On the other,
these worries may be offset to a degree by the lowness of asset prices and investor psychology.
The former elements argue strongly against aggressive investing, but the latter - and the low
promised returns on highly safe investments - argue that one's investment program should
include some forward movement.

When I attended the University of Chicago it was very fashionable to use the qualifier ceteris
paribus: "all other things being equal." So I can flatly state that, ceteris paribus, an outlook
characterized by slow growth, potential serious problems and great uncertainty should call for (a)
more fixed income investments than equities, (b) more pursuit of value today than growth
tomorrow and (c) more safe investments and less use of leverage.

However - and it's the biggest possible "however" - all else is far from equal today. Safe
investments have been bid up, such that the returns available on them are paltry at best. If you
buy the ten-year U.S. Treasury note today at 1.7%, it's hard to imagine environments other than
depression and deflation in which you'll be happy with the outcome. So one of the more
important conclusions is that this isn't a black-and-white world in which it's reasonable to insist
on safety and eschew risk. Unless you consider loss avoidance overwhelmingly important
and can truly forgo making money, the approach for today has to balance risk aversion
and the pursuit of return.

Moderate investment expectations are an important element in setting one's course. Anyone
who insists on returns like "the good old days" is heading for trouble. A somewhat reliable
return in the high single digits or low double digits to mid-teens would represent an outstanding
result today. I would counsel against trying for much more - or at least that any attempt to do so
should be recognized as entailing some very real risk.

What should one do when faced with the conditions confronting us today? I think the smartest
response still consists of investing in well-priced corporate securities and income-producing
assets. Corporations still have the best chance of adjusting to environmental phenomena such as
inflation, dislocation and competition.

An obscure 1958 book, Corporate Bond Quality and Investor Experience by W. Braddock
Hickman, is said to have given Michael Milken a lot of his inspiration to popularize high yield
bonds and foster new issue and secondary markets for them in the 1970s. In his book, Hickman
reports on the performance of corporate bonds between 1900 and 1943. He shows that the lower
a bond's quality and rating, the higher the return from holding it.

This is a very important conclusion. Aside from arguing for high yield bond investing, it shows
that even in this period, which included the Great Depression, corporate bond investing was quite
successful. What that tells me is that despite the extremely tough economic climate, many
corporations were able to make money and service their debt. This supports my belief that
corporate investing represents an attractive strategy for uncertain times.

 * * *

The simplistic view says that because the world is uncertain today, we shouldn't venture
forth. But I think it's much wiser to say that despite the uncertainty, we shouldn't
automatically settle for assets believed to be entirely safe - especially since (a) flight of
capital to their seeming safety has rendered their promised returns low and (b) that safety
can prove to be illusory. Instead we should attempt to take control of our fate and strive
for reasonable returns with the risks handled responsibly.

And one of the most interesting aspects of investing stems from the fact that you can't just do
nothing. In the investing world, even doing nothing is doing something. It's choosing to stay
with what you have rather than switch to what you could have. It's deciding to deal with the
environment passively rather than actively. And it's avoiding the risky to stay with the
seemingly safe. These are significant actions, and they must be undertaken on the basis of
serious analysis and active decision making.

The challenge today is that while you can get less-than-safe things relatively cheap because
the crowd is desperate for safety, the crowd's concerns are not imaginary. If you turn up the
risk because you think the premium being paid for safety is too high, there are scenarios under
which you will have made a big mistake. Because the probability of those scenarios occurring is
materially above zero, we can't dispense entirely with caution.

The presence of arguments on both sides renders strategy setting difficult today. But when all
the arguments are on the same side, making the choice clear, that clarity can lead the investing
herd to create a bubble or a crash. Thus our criterion for moving ahead can't be that the way
forward has to be obvious. I'm going to repeat what Charlie Munger told me about investing a
couple of years ago, even though I used it in my last memo, too: "It's not supposed to be easy.
Anyone who finds it easy is stupid."

The outlook certainly isn't so propitious (and assets aren't so cheap) as to call for investing
aggressively. But at the same time, market conditions tell me this isn't a time for hiding
under the bed. "Move forward, but with caution" -- that's my mantra today. The
environment is uncertain, but we shouldn't find that paralyzing.


Memo: A Fresh Start (Hopefully).

For years I kept these memos away from anything related to politics. But more recently I began to
discuss issues facing the United States, and this has required some mention of policy and thus of politics.
I've tried very hard to be non-partisan, with a goal of not having readers know my leanings. I hope I've
succeeded; at least no one has complained. (But lots of people deceive themselves regarding how
unbiased they are, and I may be one of them.)

Because I found America's recent presidential election - and especially the results - so fascinating, I'm
going to move explicitly to the field of politics, but with the same goal of non-partisan expression.

The Votes Are In

To me, the most interesting statistics are these:

 Obama beat Romney by less than three percentage points. That's more than most people
 projected, but still a modest edge. It's a narrow win relative to the long-term history of our
 elections, but five of the last thirteen were closer.
 Four years ago, Obama beat his Republican rival by 9.5 million votes.
 This year, he got 6.8 million fewer votes and won by only 3.5 million votes (meaning Romney
 pulled in 0.8 million fewer votes than McCain did in 2008).
 7.6 million fewer votes were cast in total this year, even though there must now be several million
 more eligible voters in the U.S. than there were four years ago.

What do these things mean?

 For months I've been asking people, "Among those who voted for Obama last time, how many
 are disappointed?" Clearly the answer turned out to be, "A lot." (Note that many of the people
 who did vote for Obama may also have been disappointed, but not enough to not back him.)
 Despite that disappointment - and the persistent high level of unemployment - Obama still won.
 Many voters apparently saw him as the better choice between two unexciting candidates.

Behind the Numbers

On November 9, The Wall Street Journal ran an interesting article entitled "U.S. Voting Numbers Show
Changing Nation." It suggested a number of observations relating to voting trends.

 While Obama and Romney received similar numbers of total votes, few sub-sectors of the
 electorate were closely divided. The Journal listed a number of voting groups where Romney
 had commanding leads: white, male, older, working-class, and rural and small-town. In contrast,
 Obama owes his victory to strong, sometimes overwhelming majorities among other groups:
 Latino, African-American and Asian-American, female, younger, college-educated, unmarried,

 and urban and suburban. Clearly, at the margin, the two candidates' constituencies were very
 different demographically.

 When I think of the Romney-leaning groups listed above, I'm reminded of a 1930 painting by
 Grant Wood titled "American Gothic." It shows an older white couple standing in front of their
 obviously Midwestern farmhouse, with the husband holding a pitchfork. I think the typical
 Republican voter of this last election is nostalgic for that era and wants that America back. The
 problem the Republican Party faced in this election is that America is moving away from that
 demographic, not toward it.

 Immigration is an important aspect of life in America and a significant political issue. Our
 immigrant populations are large and are growing faster than our non-immigrant populations
 (note, however, that almost every "non-immigrant" is descended from someone who wasn't born
 in the U.S.). Immigrants who have become U.S. citizens and thus are eligible to vote have a hard
 time with candidates who adopt a punitive stance toward illegal (today's politically correct term
 is "undocumented") immigrants. But a strong stand on illegal immigration is among the things
 demanded by a vocal and significant segment of the voters who choose the candidates in
 Republican primaries. Immigrants tend to be more religious and conservative (in the
 everyday sense of the word), and thus they might be expected to vote Republican. But right
 now the Republican Party is denied a huge percentage of their votes.

 There are significant ironies in some other groups' voting patterns. I usually expect people to
 "vote their pocketbooks" and support the candidate most likely to enhance their financial well-
 being. But this year's results show that's not always the case.

 o Voters over 40 years of age supported the Republican ticket, which placed great emphasis
 on curtailing retirement and healthcare benefits (although avowedly not for today's senior
 citizens).
 o Voters under 40 came out more for the Democrats, even though the young pay a lot today
 for the entitlement programs Democrats are protecting for older citizens, and the day
 when they'll benefit from them is far off.
 o Lower-income, less-educated voters - who are unlikely to progress far up the economic
 ladder - gave majorities to the Republican candidate, with his promise to protect the
 wealthy from tax increases.
 o College graduates and higher-income whites - with their greater probability of achieving
 big incomes - came out for the Democratic candidate, who considers it essential to raise
 tax rates at the top.

 The Journal makes the point that "Republicans enjoy historically high levels of control over
 governorships and state legislatures, which they say shows the party's potential if it can improve
 its message to minorities." What I think it shows is that, unsurprisingly, traditional Republicans
 can win state and local elections in traditional states, and highly conservative Republicans can
 win elections in highly conservative states. The challenge the party faces lies in uniting
 behind a single candidate for nationwide office who can win in both. As long as the two
 Republican factions are unable to agree on a candidate who appeals to the huge number of
 independents in the middle of the political spectrum, the Republicans will be swimming
 upstream.

When you put it all together, you see challenges and conundrums. Right now, the voting trends and
demographics make it seem as though the Republicans will be out of power for a long time to come. But

I've seen many pendulum-like swings in politics in my life, and I'm sure we'll see many more in the
battle between the left and the right for the middle-of-the-roaders who decide American elections.

It's the Weather, Stupid!

In a curious aside, consider these facts:

 According to CBS, 41% of voters said in an exit poll that Hurricane Sandy had played a
 significant role in their choice between the two candidates. 26% said it was "an important factor"
 and 15% said it was "the most important factor."

 Presumably most of the people who said they were influenced by Sandy were expressing a
 positive view on Obama's handling of it. (It's hard to imagine the logic under which Sandy
 would have caused someone to vote for Romney.)

If you believe the exit polls, people who were positively influenced by the handling of Sandy could
have made up all or more of Obama's 2.8% margin of victory. If it's true that Sandy was the
deciding factor for 15% of the electorate, and if it caused just a fifth of those people to switch to Obama,
that means without Sandy, Romney would have won. I find it shocking that the choice of a president for
four years could turn on something as fickle as the weather.

College Daze

How did the "too close to call" headlines of the days just before the election turn into a resounding
victory, which the Democrats will argue has given them a mandate to lead? How did Obama's small edge
in the popular vote turn into a 62%-38% margin in terms of the electoral votes that determine the winner?
The answer lies in the peculiarities of our electoral college.

I was traveling in Asia and the Middle East at election time, and I found myself having to explain a
system in which:

 In all but a few states, 100% of the electoral votes go to whoever wins the popular vote there,
 regardless of the margin.
 Most of the 50 states - this year it was roughly 43 - are considered "uncompetitive," meaning one
 party or the other enjoys a substantial, dependable majority. For that reason, a vote for a
 Republican is totally meaningless in a Democratic state like California, as is a vote for a
 Democrat in Republican Utah.
 On the other hand, the electoral system gives voters in a few states disproportionate influence.
 Since the uncompetitive states' electoral votes are not in play, elections are determined by only
 the few so-called "swing" or "battleground" states. In fact, this year many people thought the
 election might be determined largely by who won in just one state: Ohio.
 Perhaps most glaringly, a candidate can be elected president with a majority of electoral votes
 despite having received fewer popular votes than another.

Our system was designed in the eighteenth century to centralize the job of choosing a president in the
hands of a few wise leaders and avoid the uncertainties associated with a widespread and uninformed
populace with which it was hard to communicate.

But in the twenty-first century, with the impediments to a meaningful popular election much reduced, it's
time to reassess the benefits of the electoral college - it's hard to say what they are - versus the costs in
terms of potentially weird outcomes. In the days just before the election, it seemed that for the
second time in twelve years we could have a president who'd lost the popular vote. That tells me
it's time to reassess our system of voting.

The First Order of Business

What do you think of when you hear the word "Greece"?

 An uncompetitive, low-growth economy,
 for years, a higher credit rating than it deserved,
 the resultant ability to borrow money it shouldn't have been able to, at interest rates that were
 unjustifiably low,
 excessive public spending,
 generous benefit promises that it can't fulfill given the realities and, as a result,
 soaring debt and deficits.
 Consequently, the need to cut spending and increase taxes, and
 mandated austerity and delevering, with very negative implications for economic growth.

Now ask yourself what you think of when you hear the words "United States." Certainly the facts aren't
the same: our economy is the world's greatest (although not what it used to be), and we can print the
world's reserve currency, which Greece certainly can't. But there are similarities. The situation in the
U.S. isn't a repeat of Greece's but, as Mark Twain would have said, "it does rhyme."

The truth is that the U.S. has pressing fiscal problems, stretching as far as the eye can see:

 in the short term, the "fiscal cliff," in which already-mandated tax increases and spending cuts
 have the potential to take 4% off of GDP if nothing is done about them within the next six weeks,
 in the medium term, trillion-dollar deficits unless there's radical improvement, and
 in the long term, entitlement promises that absolutely cannot be met. (With millions of Baby
 Boomers entering their senior years and living longer, we cannot afford the pensions and
 healthcare benefits that have been promised. The math is inescapable. If these programs are left
 unchanged, Social Security benefits will grow inexorably, and spending on healthcare has the
 potential to escalate without limitation.)

The bottom line is that if we don't want to be Greece, we can't act like Greece. Something has to be
done . . . and soon. Every year in which we add another trillion dollars to the national debt (and
tens of billions to the annual interest bill) - and every year the excessive entitlement promises are
allowed to compound - makes it harder to solve the problem.

Vote "No" on Gridlock

Political conservatism is associated with a desire for a small federal government, and that often leads to a
preference for a divided government and the gridlock that goes with it. The argument is that since
government doesn't do much well, we're better off if gridlock prevents government from doing much.

People are entitled to a preference for inaction if they view things that way, but I'd venture that inaction is
desirable only when conditions are benign. I wouldn't want to see the government paralyzed by gridlock
if we were attacked militarily, or if an epidemic needed fighting, or if we were on the edge of a
depression, as I think we were in 2008. And I believe strongly that the fiscal problems outlined above
need solving; they won't go away by themselves.

Our debt and deficits will recede only if we do some or all of the following:

 cut spending
 reduce waste
 reform Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid
 raise taxes
 speed up economic growth

In theory, even a gridlocked government can take action against waste, but I think the idea of big savings
from doing so is largely an impossible dream. And conservatives would eagerly argue that the best way
to foster growth isn't for government to take action, but for it to get out of the way of the free enterprise
system (I don't fully disagree). But, especially to solve the shorter-term problems, I think we need
progress on the other elements, and that will require constructive decision making in Washington.

The opposite of gridlock is compromise. That's what we need today. Compromise, however, doesn't
mean one party saying "We get all we want and you get none of what you want." Deals like that can
only be inked if one party holds all the cards: either the White House plus majorities in both the Senate
(and preferably the 60 votes required to stop a filibuster) and the House of Representatives or, at
minimum, majorities in both houses of Congress and enough votes to override a presidential veto. Both
parties are far from that today, and that may remain the case for a long time.

No, compromise means, "We get some of what we want and you get some of what you want." In
practice, it means elected officials have to vote for things they promised to fight and give up on
things they swore to deliver. Unless you do that, the other guy doesn't get any of what he wants -
meaning he has no reason to go along. This is a reality that our political leaders have failed to confront
and accept.

While compromise comes at a cost, gridlock can cost more. Last year, some long-term U.S. debt was
downgraded after a particularly unseemly battle over the federal debt ceiling. This occurred not so much
because of our fiscal situation, but because our dysfunctional government showed itself to be unable to
rise to the occasion and solve problems.

Help Wanted

In past big-picture memos, I have discussed some of the threats to American industrial performance in the
years ahead, the dim job prospects of those not suited to work in the Information Age, and my belief that
Americans will have to get used to declining relative standards of living.

On November 7, The New York Times carried an excellent article by Thomas L. Friedman entitled "Hope
and Change, Part II." In it, Friedman did a great job of outlining some of the things Washington will have
to do in order for the outlook to improve.

 The next generation is going to need immigration of high-I.Q. risk-takers from India,
 China and Latin America if the United States is going to remain at the cutting edge of the
 Information Technology revolution and be able to afford the government we want. . . .

 . . . my prediction is that the biggest domestic issue in the next four years will be how we
 respond to changes in technology, globalization and markets that have, in a very short
 space of time, made the decent-wage, middle-skilled job - the backbone of the middle
 class - increasingly obsolete. The only decent-wage jobs will be high-skilled ones.

 The answer to that challenge will require a new level of political imagination - a
 combination of educational reforms and unprecedented collaboration between business,
 schools, universities and government to change how workers are trained and empowered
 to keep learning. It will require tax reforms and immigration reforms. America today
 desperately needs a center-right Republican party offering merit-based, market-based
 approaches to all these issues - and a willingness to meet the other side halfway. The
 country is starved for practical, bipartisan cooperation, and it will reward politicians who
 deliver it and punish those who don't. . . .

I'm frustrated when I see Americans of both parties failing to punish - or even encouraging -
behavior on the part of their elected officials that is fractious, partisan, ideological and non-
compromising. Gridlock and inaction won't solve our problems. Cooperation, adaptability and
Friedman's "imagination" must be the watchwords for the years ahead.

We need constructive action to solve the many problems we face, and there's only one way for it to
materialize: bipartisanship.

Signs of Spring

While I was on my recent travels, several people asked me to suggest a potential catalyst for better
markets. There isn't any mystery. I felt (and feel) the clearest answer lies in bipartisan action to
resolve our fiscal crises, starting with the fiscal cliff. In that connection, John Boehner, Speaker of the
House of Representatives, gave a noteworthy speech the day after the election. I'm going to quote some
of the encouraging statements here (highlighting my very favorites).

 The American people have spoken. They have re-elected President Obama. And they
 have again elected a Republican majority in the House of Representatives. If there is a
 mandate in yesterday's results, it is a mandate for us to find a way to work together
 on solutions to the challenges we face together as a nation.

 My message today is not one of confrontation, but of conviction. In the weeks and
 months ahead, we face a series of tremendous challenges - and a great opportunity. . . .

 The American people this week didn't give us a mandate to do the "simple" thing. They
 elected us to lead. They gave us a mandate to work together to do the best thing for our
 country.

 We know what the best thing would be. It would be an agreement that sends the signal to
 our economy, and to the world, that after years of punting on the major fiscal challenges
 we face, 2013 is going to be different. It would be an agreement that begins to pave the

 way for the long-term growth that is essential if we want to lift the cloud of debt hanging
 over our country. . . .

 . . . the American people . . . expect us to solve the problem. And for that reason, in order
 to garner Republican support for new revenues, the president must be willing to reduce
 spending and shore up the entitlement programs that are the primary drivers of our
 debt. . . . For purposes of forging a bipartisan agreement that begins to solve the
 problem, we're willing to accept new revenue, under the right conditions. . . .

 The president has signaled a willingness to do tax reform with lower rates.
 Republicans have signaled a willingness to accept new revenue if it comes from
 growth and reform. Let's start the discussion there.

 I'm not suggesting we compromise on our principles. But I am suggesting we commit
 ourselves to creating an atmosphere where we can see common ground when it exists,
 and seize it. . . .

 Mr. President, this is your moment. We're ready to be led, not as Democrats or
 Republicans, but as Americans. We want you to lead -- not as a liberal or a
 conservative, but as the President of the United States of America. We want you to
 succeed.

 Let's challenge ourselves to find the common ground that has eluded us. Let's rise
 above the dysfunction, and do the right thing together for our country in a
 bipartisan way.

"We want you to succeed." Wow!

As a point of contrast, two years ago, another Republican leader said, "The single most important thing
we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president." That was full-contact politics at
its worst, with a goal not of solving the nation's problems, but of winning the next election. Speaker
Boehner's remarks are 180 degrees from that . . . and all we could ask for at this point.

I'm not a cynic. I want to believe Speaker Boehner means what he says. The important thing is that a
spirit of cooperation exists. Hopefully the details can be worked out (although the two parties are at
absolute loggerheads on the subject of raising taxes on big earners, and no one should underestimate the
difficulty this presents). I am encouraged for now, and I'm going to stay that way until given reason not
to be.

President Obama's Reply

I'm proud to share the news that on the strength of my memos, I have been asked to craft a response for
President Obama on this subject. I include my first draft below. (Actually, there was no such request, but
I've done it anyway.)

 Ladies and gentlemen: I am speaking to you tonight, not to revel in victory, but to chart a
 course for progress. Not to assert just the goals of my administration and my supporters,
 but to describe what we're going to get done for all the American people, and how.

 In our first term, we took stimulative actions that rescued our country from the threat of
 depression, and we fought to enact a controversial program that will make healthcare
 more readily available. There's far more we didn't get done, and much of that was
 because of a lack of bipartisanship in Washington.

 A lot has to be dealt with in the next four years. The list starts with handling the fiscal
 cliff looming ahead and goes on to include a large number of economic, social and
 international issues. The basic facts in Washington are unchanged by the election.
 Democrats occupy the White House and possess a slender majority in the Senate, but
 we're in the minority in the House and our numbers in the Senate aren't sufficient to cut
 off debate. Thus control of government continues to be divided. That means progress
 will be grudging and limited unless we can resurrect a genuine spirit of compromise.

 For me to succeed in my job under these circumstances, I must recognize that
 almost as many people voted for my opponent as voted for me, and that there are
 almost as many Republicans in the Senate as there are Democrats (and more in the
 House).

 Thus I promise not to act as if only our ideas have merit, or as if only our principles
 are valid. In order to win support for the things we think are most important, we
 will make room to the greatest degree possible for the things our colleagues across
 the aisle deem important, as long as the overall result moves our country in the right
 direction.

 What matters most isn't winning elections, it's doing right for America. I believe the
 party that does more of that will win most elections anyway. The end will be won if the
 means are right. You have my pledge that they will be.

That's the best I can do. The rest is up to our elected officials. As my British friends say,
"fingers crossed."