Memo: Ditto.

Here's how I started Whad'Ya Know in March 2003:

 I always ask Nancy to read my memos before I send them out. She seems to think
 being my wife gives her license to be brutally frank. "They're all the same," she
 says, "like your ties. They all talk about the importance of a high batting average, the
 need to avoid losers, and how much there is that no one can know."

The truth is, anyone who reads my memos of the last 23 years will see I return often to a few topics.
This is due to the frequency with which themes tend to recur in the investment world. Humans often
fail to learn. They forget the lessons of history, repeat patterns of behavior and make the same
mistakes. As a result, certain themes arise over and over. Mark Twain had it right: "History doesn't
repeat itself, but it does rhyme." The details of the events may vary greatly from occurrence to
occurrence, but the themes giving rise to the events tend not to change.

What are some of my key repeating themes? Here are a few:

 the importance of risk and risk control
 the repetitiveness of behavior patterns and mistakes
 the role of cycles and pendulums
 the volatility of credit market conditions
 the brevity of financial memory
 the errors of the herd
 the importance of gauging investor psychology
 the desirability of contrarianism and counter-cyclicality
 the futility of macro forecasting

Most or all of these have to do with behavior that's observed in the markets over and over. When I
see it recur and want to comment, I'm often tempted to dust off an old memo, update the details, and
just insert the word "ditto." But I don't, because there's usually something worth adding.

Cycles

One of the most important themes in investing - and one I often find worthy of discussion - relates to
cycles. What is a cycle? Dictionaries define it as "a series of events that are regularly repeated in the
same order" or "any complete round or series of occurrences that repeats or is repeated." And here's
the definition of the term "business cycle": "The recurring and fluctuating levels of economic
activity that an economy experiences over a long period of time."

As you can see, the common thread is the concept of a series of events that is repeated. Many people
think of a cycle as a continuous pattern in which a rise is followed by a fall, followed by another rise
and another fall, and so forth.

These definitions are fine as far as they go, but I think they all miss something very important: the
sense that each of the events in a cycle not only follows the one preceding it but is a result of the one
preceding it. I think in the economic, investment and credit arenas, a cycle is usually best
viewed not merely as a progression through a standard sequence of positive and negative
events, but as a chain reaction.

Before I launch into the discussion of cycles that will follow, I want to make the point that it's hard
to know where to start. It's tough to say, "The cycle started with y," since usually y was caused by x,
and x by w. But we have to start someplace.

The Real Estate Cycle

I'll use the cycle in real estate as an example. In my view it's usually clear, simple and regularly
recurring:

 Bad times cause the level of building activity to be low and the availability of capital for
 building to be constrained.
 In a while the times become less bad, and eventually even good.
 Better economic times cause the demand for premises to rise.
 With few buildings having been started during the soft period and now coming on stream,
 this additional demand for space causes the supply/demand picture to tighten and thus prices
 and rents to rise.
 This improves the economics of real estate ownership, reawakening developers' eagerness to
 build.
 The better times and improved economics also make lenders and investors more optimistic.
 Their improved state of mind causes financing to become more readily available.
 Cheaper, easier financing raises the pro forma returns on potential projects, adding to their
 attractiveness and increasing developers' desire to pursue them.
 Higher projected returns, more optimistic developers and more generous providers of capital
 combine for a ramp-up in building starts.
 The first completed projects encounter strong pent-up demand. They lease up or sell out
 quickly, giving their developers good returns.
 Those good returns - plus each day's increasingly positive headlines - cause additional
 buildings to be planned, financed and green-lighted.
 Cranes fill the sky (and additional cranes are ordered from the factory, but that's a different
 cycle).
 It takes years for the buildings started later to reach completion. In the interim, the first ones
 to open eat into the unmet demand.
 The period between the start of planning to the opening of a building is often long enough for
 the economy to transition from boom to bust. Projects started in good times often open in
 bad, meaning their space adds to vacancies, putting downward pressure on rents and sale
 prices. Unfilled space hangs over the market.

 Bad times cause the level of building activity to be low and the availability of capital for
 building to be constrained. Or, as we said in computer programming in the 1960s, "go to
 top" and begin again.

This process is highly illustrative of the cyclical chain reaction I'm talking about. Each step in this
progression doesn't merely follow the one that preceded it; it is caused by the one that preceded it.

Cycles and Risk

This memo is devoted to the cycle in attitudes toward risk. Economies rise and fall quite moderately
(think about it: a 5% drop in GDP is considered massive). Companies see their profits fluctuate
considerably more, because of their operating and financial leverage. But market gyrations make the
fluctuations in company profits look mild. Securities prices rise and fall much more than profits,
introducing considerable investment risk. Why is that so? Primarily, I think, because of the
dramatic ups and downs in investor psychology.

The economic cycle is constrained in its fluctuations by the existence of long-term contracts and the
fact that people will always eat, pay rent, buy gasoline, and engage in many other activities. The
quantities involved will rise and fall, but not without limitation. Likewise for most companies: cost
reductions can mitigate the impact of sales declines on earnings, and there's often some base level
below which sales are unlikely to go. In other words, there are limits on these cycles.

But there are no checks on the swings of investor psychology. At times investors get crazily bullish
and can imagine no limits on prosperity, growth and appreciation. They assume trees will grow to
the sky. Nothing's too good to be true. And on other occasions, correspondingly, despondent
investors can't think of any limits to how bad things can get. People conclude that the "worst case"
scenario they prepared for isn't negative enough. Highly disastrous outcomes are considered
plausible, even likely.

Over the years, I've become convinced that fluctuations in investor attitudes toward risk
contribute more to major market movements than anything else. I don't expect this to ever
change.

The Source of Investment Risk

Much (perhaps most) of the risk in investing comes not from the companies, institutions or
securities involved. It comes from the behavior of investors. Back in the dark ages of investing,
people connected investment safety with high-quality assets and risk with low-quality assets. Bonds
were assumed to be safer than stocks. Stocks of leading companies were considered safer than stocks
of lesser companies. Gilt-edge or investment grade bonds were considered safe and speculative
grade bonds were considered risky. I'll never forget Moody's definition of a B-rated bond: "fails to
possess the characteristics of a desirable investment."

All of these propositions were accepted at face value. But they often failed to hold up.

 When I joined First National City Bank in the late 1960s, the bank built its investment
 approach around the "Nifty Fifty." These were considered to be the fifty best and fastest
 growing companies in America. Most of them turned out to be great companies . . . just not
 great investments. In the early 1970s their p/e ratios went from 80 or 90 to 8 or 9, and
 investors in these top-quality companies lost roughly 90% of their money.

 Then, in 1978, I was asked to start a fund to invest in high yield bonds. They were
 commonly called "junk bonds," but a few investors invested nevertheless, lured by their high
 interest rates. Anyone who put $1 into the high yield bond index at the end of 1979 would
 have more than $23 today, and they were never in the red.

Let's think about that. You can invest in the best companies in America and have a bad experience,
or you can invest in the worst companies in America and have a good experience. So the lesson is
clear: it's not asset quality that determines investment risk.

The precariousness of the Nifty Fifty in 1969 - and the safety of high yield bonds in 1978 - stemmed
from how they were priced. A too-high price can make something risky, whereas a too-low price can
make it safe. Price isn't the only factor in play, of course. Deterioration of an asset can cause a loss,
as can its failure to produce profits as expected. But, all other things being equal, the price of an
asset is the principal determinant of its riskiness.

The bottom line on this is simple. No asset is so good that it can't be bid up to the point where
it's overpriced and thus dangerous. And few assets are so bad that they can't become
underpriced and thus safe (not to mention potentially lucrative).

Since participants set security prices, it's their behavior that creates most of the risk in
investing. This is true in many other activities as well, the common thread being the involvement of
humans.

 Jill Fredston, an expert on avalanches, has observed that "better safety gear can entice
 climbers to take more risk - making them in fact less safe." (Pensions & Investments)

 When all traffic controls were removed from the town of Drachten, Holland, traffic flow
 doubled and fatal accidents fell to zero, presumably because people drove more carefully.
 (Dylan Grice, Societe Generale)

So improvements in safety equipment can be neutralized by human behavior, and driving can
become safer despite the removal of safety equipment. It all depends on how the participants behave.

The Cycle in Attitudes toward Risk

The riskiest thing in the investment world is the belief that there's no risk. On the other hand,
a high level of risk consciousness tends to mitigate risk. I call this the perversity of risk. It's the
reason for Warren Buffett's dictum that "The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs,
the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs." When other people love
investments, we should be cautious. But when others hate them, we should turn aggressive.

It is essential to observe that investor attitudes in this regard are far from constant. A memo called
The Happy Medium (July 21, 2004) said that while it would be good for most investors (the ones not
suited to be contrarians) to always hold a moderate position that balances risk aversion and risk
tolerance - and thus the fear of losing money and the fear of missing opportunities - this is
something very few people can do. Rather, attitudes toward risk cycle up and down, usually counter-
productively. Becoming more and less risk averse at the right time is a great way to enhance
investment performance. Doing it at the wrong time - like most people do - can have a terrible
effect on results.

How does the up-cycle in risk taking develop?

 When economic growth is slow or negative and markets are weak, most people worry
 about losing money and disregard the risk of missing opportunities. Only a few stout-
 hearted contrarians are capable of imagining that improvement is possible.
 Then the economy shows some signs of life, and corporate earnings begin to move up rather
 than down.
 Sooner or later economic growth takes hold visibly and earnings show surprising gains.
 This excess of reality over expectations causes security prices to start moving up.
 Because of those gains - along with the improving economic and corporate news - the
 average investor realizes that improvement is actually underway. Confidence rises.
 Investors feel richer and smarter, forget their prior bad experience, and extrapolate the recent
 progress.
 Skepticism and caution abate; optimism and aggressiveness take their place.
 Anyone who's been sitting out the dance experiences the pain of watching from the sidelines
 as assets appreciate. The bystanders feel regret and are gradually sucked in.
 The longer this process goes on, the more enthusiasm for investments rises and resistance
 subsides. People worry less about losing money and more about missing opportunities.
 Risk aversion evaporates and investors behave more aggressively. People begin to have
 difficulty imagining how losses could ever occur.
 Financial institutions, subject to the same influences, become willing to provide increased
 financing. In the words of Citibank's Chuck Prince, when the music's playing, they see no
 choice but to dance. Thus they compete for market share by reducing the return they demand
 and by being willing to finance riskier deals (see The Race to the Bottom, February 14, 2007).
 Easier financing - along with the recent gains - encourages investors to make greater use of
 leverage. Borrowed capital increases their buying power, and they move to put it to work.
 Leveraged investors report the greatest gains, consistent with the old Las Vegas maxim: "the
 more you bet, the more you win when you win." This causes others to emulate them.
 The market takes on the appearance of a perpetual-motion machine. Appreciation
 accelerates, possibly leading to a mania or bubble. Everyone concludes that things can
 only get better forever. They forget about the risk of losing money and fixate on not
 missing opportunities. Leveraged buyers become convinced that the things they buy with
 borrowed money are certain to appreciate at a rate above their borrowing cost.
 Eventually things get as good as they can get, the last skeptic capitulates, and the last
 potential buyer buys.

That's the way the cycle of attitudes toward risk ascends. The skeptic in times of moderation
becomes a true believer at the top.

But as Herb Stein brilliantly observed, "If something cannot go on forever, it will stop." Applying
that thought here, I'd say when things are as good as they can get, they can't get any better. That
suggests eventually they'll get worse.

It always turns out that - investors' hopes to the contrary - economies, profits and asset prices can't
rise forever. Or, at a minimum, they can't keep pace with investors' ever-rising hopes. And thus the
down-cycle begins.

 Once the last potential buyer has bought, there's nobody left to take prices higher.
 A few unemotional, disciplined and foresighted investors conclude that things have gone
 too far and a correction is in the cards.
 Economic activity and corporate earnings turn down, or they begin to fall short of people's
 irrationally expanded expectations.
 The error of those expectations becomes obvious, causing security prices to start declining.
 Perhaps someone is daring enough to point out publicly that the emperor of limitless growth
 has no clothes. Sometimes there's a catalyzing event. Or sometimes (see early 2000)
 security prices begin to fall of their own accord, simply because they had moved too high.
 The first price declines cause investors to rethink their analysis, conclusions, commitment to
 the market and risk tolerance. It becomes clear that appreciation will not go on ad infinitum.
 "I'd buy at any price" is replaced by "how can I know what the right price is?"
 Weak economic news takes the place of positive reports.
 The average investor realizes that things are getting worse.
 Interest in investing declines. Selling replaces buying.
 Investors who sat out the dance - or who just underweighted the depreciating assets - are
 lionized for their wisdom, and holders start to feel stupid.
 Giddy enthusiasm is replaced by sober skepticism. Risk tolerance declines and risk aversion
 is on the upswing. People switch from worrying about missing opportunity to worrying
 about losing money.
 Financial institutions become less willing to extend credit to investors. At the extremes,
 investors receive margin calls.
 Investors who borrowed to buy are heavily penalized, and the media report on leveraged
 entities' spectacular meltdowns. Forced selling in response to margin calls and covenant
 violations causes price declines to accelerate.
 Eventually we hear some familiar refrains: "I wouldn't buy at any price," "There's no
 negative case that can't be exceeded on the downside," and "I don't care if I ever make
 another penny in the market; I just don't want to lose any more."
 The last believer loses faith in the market, selling accelerates, and prices reach their nadir.
 Everyone concludes that things can only get worse forever.

Coping with the Risk Cycle

The important conclusions from observing the above pattern are these:

 Over time, conditions in the real world - the economy and business - cycle from better to
 worse and back again.

 Investor psychology responds to these ups and downs in a highly exaggerated fashion.

 When things are going well, investors swing to excessive euphoria, under the assumption that
 everything's good and can only get better.

 And when things are bad, they swing toward depression and panic, viewing everything
 negatively and assuming it can only get worse.

 When the outlook is good and their mood is ebullient, investors take security prices to levels
 that greatly overstate the positives, from which a correction is inevitable.

 And when the outlook is bad and they're depressed, investors reduce prices to levels that
 overstate the negatives, from which great gains are possible and the risk of further declines is
 limited.

The excessive nature of these swings in psychology - and thus security prices - dependably creates
opportunities of over- and under-valuation. In bad times securities can often be bought at prices
that understate their merits. And in good times securities can be sold at prices that overstate
their potential. And yet, most people are impelled to buy euphorically when the cycle drives
prices up and to sell in panic when it drives prices down.

"Buy and hold" used to be a popular approach among investors, and it performed admirably when the
markets rose almost non-stop from 1960 to 1972 and from 1982 to 1999. But thanks to the lackluster
results of the last thirteen years, it has nearly disappeared. Nowadays, investors are much more
likely to trade in an effort to profit from - or at least avoid losses connected to - economic, corporate
and market developments. However, when most investors unite behind a macro trading decision,
they're usually wrong in the ways described above. This is the reason why contrarianism often pays
off big.

In order to be a successful contrarian, you have to do the opposite of what the herd does. And to do
that, you have to diverge from the conventional cycle in attitudes toward risk. Everyone would like
to profitably resist this error-prone and thus costly cycle. The fact that most people succumb anyway
shows how strong its power is, and that most people are not above average in this regard (of course).
Markets move in response to decisions made by the majority of investors. Most investors are guilty
of the sin of overreacting (and, even worse, the sin of moving in the wrong direction), demonstrating
that the ability to resist the cycle is uncommon.

To be a successful contrarian, you have to be able to:

 see what most people are doing,
 understand what's wrong about most people's behavior,
 possess a strong sense for intrinsic value, which most people ignore at the extremes,
 resist the psychological pressures that make most people err, and thus
 buy when most people are selling and sell when most people are buying.

And one other thing: you have to be willing to look wrong for a while. If the herd is doing the wrong
thing, and if you're capable of seeing that and doing the opposite, it's still highly unlikely that the
wisdom of what you do will become apparent immediately. Usually the crowd's irrational euphoria
will continue to take prices higher for a while - possibly a long while - or its excessive negativism

will continue to take prices lower. The contrarian will appear wrong, and the fact that his error
comes in acting differently from most people will make him look like nothing but an oddball loser.
Thus, in addition to the five requirements listed above, successful contrarianism requires the
ability to stick with losing positions that, as David Swensen has written, "frequently appear
downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom."

If you can't stand living with the embarrassment of being unconventional and wrong, contrarianism
may not be for you. Rather than trying to do the difficult opposite of what the crowd is doing, you
might have to settle for merely refusing to join in its errors. That would be a very good thing. But
even that is not easy.

Risk and Return Today (2004 Version)

The name of this section served as the title of a memo in October 2004. It was one of my first
cautionary responses to the vertiginous market ascent that would be exposed by the sub-prime
mortgage collapse in 2007 and would culminate in the global financial crisis in 2008.

In the memo I observed that the "capital market line" connecting risk and return had become "lower
and flatter." The lowness meant that the line started off with low returns on low-risk assets (due to
the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy through low interest rates) and, as one moved out the risk
curve, even riskier investments offered low potential returns. "Due to the low interest rates," I said,
"the bar for each successively riskier investment has been set lower than at any time in my career."

The flatness of the line was a result of sanguine attitudes toward risk. Here are excerpts from my
explanation (emphasis in the original):

 First, investors have fallen over themselves in their effort to get away from low-risk,
 low-return investments. When you're especially eager not to make safe investment A, it
 takes less compensation than usual (in terms of prospective return) to get you to accept
 risky investment B. . . .

 Second, risky investments have been very rewarding for more than twenty years and
 did particularly well in 2003. . . . Thus investors are attracted more (or repelled less) by
 risky investments than perhaps might otherwise be the case and require less risk
 compensation to move to them.

 Third, investors perceive risk as being quite limited today. Because rising inflation isn't
 seen as a significant risk, bond investors don't require much of a premium to extend maturity.
 And because the combination of a recovering economy and an accommodating capital market
 has brought default rates to record lows, investors are unconcerned about credit risk and thus
 are willing to accept below-average credit spreads. Prospective return exists to
 compensate for perceived risk, and when there isn't much perceived risk, there isn't
 likely to be much prospective return.

 In summary, to use the words of the "quants," risk aversion is down. . . .

 . . . would-be buyers are optimistic, unafraid, undemanding in terms of return, and
 moving en masse to small asset classes. Holders of assets, who play a part in setting market
 prices by deciding where they'll sell, also are optimistic. The result is an unappetizing, risk-
 tolerant, high-priced investment landscape. . . .

 There are times when the investing errors are of omission: the things you should have done
 but didn't. Today I think the errors are probably of commission: the things you shouldn't
 have done but did. There are times for aggressiveness. I think this is a time for caution.

In other words, everything seemed positive, attitudes toward risk bearing were on the upswing, and
security prices moved higher, bringing down potential returns. That memo may have been too early,
but it wasn't wrong. There was a fair bit of money to be made in the next few years, but its pursuit
brought investors close to the peril that lay ahead.

Risk and Return Today (2013 version)

For about a year from the middle of 2011 to the middle of 2012, I was thinking and saying that given
the many problems and uncertainties afflicting the investment environment, the biggest plus I could
find was the near-total lack of optimism on the part of investors. And I thought it was a major plus.
There's little that's as helpful for the availability of bargains as widespread low expectations.

Arguably the eight pages of this memo leading up to this point are there for the sole purpose of
establishing that when investors are sanguine risk is high, and when investors are afraid risk is low.
Today there's no question about it: investors are highly aware of the uncertainties attaching to the
sluggish recovery, fiscal imbalance and political dysfunction in the U.S.; the same or worse in
Europe; lack of growth in Japan; slowdown in China; resulting problems in the emerging markets;
and geopolitical tensions. If the global crisis was largely the product of obliviousness to risk - as
I'm sure it was - it's reassuring that there is little risk obliviousness today.

Sober attitudes on the part of investors should be a source of comfort, since in normal times we
would expect them to bring down asset prices to the point where they're attractive. The problem,
however, is that while few people are thinking bullish today, many are acting bullish. Their
pro-risk behavior is having its normal dangerous impact on the markets, even in the absence of
pro-risk thinking. I've become increasingly conscious of this inconsistency in recent months,
and I think it is the most important issue that today's investors have to confront.

What's the reason for this seeming inconsistency between thoughts and actions? The answer is
simple. These people aren't buying because they want to, but because they feel they have to. In
the past I've referred to them as "handcuff volunteers."

The normal response of investors to uncertain times is to say, "Because of the risks that are present,
I'm going to shy away from risky investments and stick with a very safe portfolio." Such views
would tend to depress prices of risky assets. But, thanks to the actions of the world's central banks to
keep rates near zero, that very safe portfolio - especially in the credit markets - will produce little if
any return today.

Many investors have sought the safety of money market and T-bill funds yielding zero, Treasury
notes at +/-1%, and high grade bonds at 3%. But some can't or won't. The retiree living on his

savings may not be able to abide the 90% reduction in short Treasury note returns. I imagine him
picking up the phone, calling the 800 number and telling his mutual fund company "get me out of
that fund yielding zero and get me into one yielding 6%. I have to replace the income I used to get
from intermediate Treasurys." And thus he becomes a high yield bond investor . . . whether
consciously or not.

A similar process can affect a pension fund or endowment that needs a return of 7-8% and doesn't
want to bet its future on the ultra-low yields on high grade bonds and Treasurys, or the 6% that the
institutional consensus expects stocks to return (especially given how badly stocks performed in
2000-02 and 2008 and their overall lack of gains since 1999).

Take high yield bonds for example. They provide some of the highest contractual returns and
greatest current income, they are attracting considerable capital. When capital flows into a market,
the resulting buying brings down the prospective returns. And when offered returns go down,
investors desirous of maintaining income turn to progressively riskier investments. In the bond
world that's called "chasing yield" or "stretching for yield." Do it if you want, but do it
consciously and with full recognition of the risks involved. And even if you refuse to stretch for
yield, be alert to the effect on the markets of those who do.

Getting Rid of Money

It's relatively easy to make good investments when capital is in short supply relative to the
opportunities and investors are reticent. But when there's "too much money chasing too few deals,"
investors compete to put it to work in ways that are injurious to everyone's financial health. I've
written often about the tendency of people to accept lower returns, higher risk and weaker terms in
order to deploy their capital in "hot" times (again as described in The Race to the Bottom). The deals
they do get worse, and that makes investing riskier and less profitable for everyone.

Because the returns on "safe" investments are so low today, people are moving further out on the risk
curve to pursue returns that meet their needs and are close to what they used to get. And the weight
of their capital is bringing down prospective returns and making riskier deals doable.

As noted on page 9, I wrote in 2004's Risk and Return Today that, "The result is an unappetizing,
risk-tolerant, high-priced investment landscape. . . ." At that time it happened because of excessive
bullishness and a paucity of risk aversion. This time around it's occurring despite the absence of
bullishness, mainly because interest rates have been rendered artificially low by the Fed and other
central banks. Regardless of the reason, things are happening again today - especially in the
credit world - that are indicative of an elevated, risk-prone market:

 Total new issue leveraged-finance volume - loans and high yield bonds - reached a new high
 of $812 billion in 2012, according to Standard & Poor's, surpassing by 20% the previous
 record set in pre-crisis 2007.

 The yields on fixed income securities have declined markedly, and in many cases they're the
 lowest they've ever been in our nation's history. Yield spreads, or credit risk premiums, are
 fair to full - meaning the relative returns on riskier securities are attractive - but the absolute
 returns are minimal.

 I find it remarkable that the average high yield bond offers only about 6% today. Daily I see
 my partner Sheldon Stone selling callable bonds at prices of 110 and 115 because their yields
 to call or yields to worst start with numbers - "handles" - of 3 or 4 percent. The yields are
 down to those levels because of strong demand for short paper with prospective returns in
 that range. I've never seen anything like it.

 As was the case in the years leading up to the onset of the crisis, the ability to execute
 aggressive transactions indicates the presence of risk tolerance in the markets. Triple-C
 bonds can be issued readily. Companies can borrow money for the purpose of paying
 dividends to their shareholders. And CLOs are again being formed to buy leveraged loans
 with heavy leverage.

 The amount of leverage being applied in today's private equity deals also indicates a return to
 risk taking. As The Wall Street Journal reported on December 17:

 Since the beginning of 2008, private-equity firms have paid an average of 42%
 of the cost of large buyouts with their own money, also known as "equity," while
 borrowing the rest. In the past six months, the percentage has fallen to 33%,
 according to Thomson Reuters, close to the 31% average in 2006 and the 30%
 average in 2007. . . .

 Other measures also suggest that debt loads are hovering around pre-crisis levels.
 The average debt put on companies acquired in leveraged-buyout deals from
 July to December amounted to 5.5 times the companies' annual earnings
 (defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). That
 is higher than any two consecutive quarters since the beginning of 2008,
 according to S&P Capital IQ LCD. The average deal leverage was 5.4 times
 earnings in 2006 and 6.2 times earnings in 2007.

The good news is that today's investors are painfully aware of the many uncertainties. The bad news
is that, regardless, they're being forced by the low interest rates to bear substantial risk at returns that
have been bid down. Their scramble for return has brought elements of pre-crisis behavior
very much back to life.

Please note that my comments are directed more at fixed income securities than equities. Fixed
income is the subject of investors' ardor today, since it's there that investors are looking for the
income they need. Equities are still being disrespected, and equity allocations reduced. Thus they
are not being lifted by comparable income-driven buying.

 * * *

In 2004, as cited above, I stated the following conclusion: "There are times for aggressiveness.
I think this is a time for caution." Here as 2013 begins, I have only one word to add: ditto.

The greatest of all investment adages states that "what the wise man does in the beginning, the
fool does in the end." The wise man invested aggressively in late 2008 and early 2009. I believe
only the fool is doing so now. Today, in place of aggressiveness, the challenging search for
return should incorporate goodly doses of risk control, caution, discipline and selectivity.


Memo: High Yield Bonds Today.

Clients often ask for our views on the high yield bond market: "Do we think prices are too
high?" "Are yields too low?" "What returns can we expect next year?" We caution them that
it's nearly impossible to accurately predict these things, and anyone who makes such forecasts is
unlikely to be right.

These days the question is primarily whether high yield bonds are in a bubble and poised to
collapse, given last year's strong performance and today's historically low yields. We don't
think high yield bonds are any more vulnerable to rising rates than other fixed income
instruments. We don't downplay the risk in the market nowadays and the fact that bond prices
are quite high. However, the situation isn't unique to high yield bonds; rather, it is true of
virtually all bonds and reflects the concerted effort on the part of central banks around the
world to hold down interest rates. Yields are at historic lows and prices are unusually high all
across the fixed income spectrum.

However, two factors argue strongly that high yield bonds are less vulnerable to rising
interest rates than other fixed income sectors:

 A high yield bond of a given maturity has a shorter duration than an investment grade
 rated bond of the same maturity, since duration is a measure of the weighted average time
 to receipt of the promised cash flows, and the larger interest coupons on high yield bonds
 mean the expected payments from interest and principal are received sooner on average.
 Thus an increase in interest rates of a certain amount implies less of a price decline for a
 high yield bond than for an investment grade rated bond of the same maturity.

 In addition, rising interest rates usually imply a growing economy, and a growing
 economy usually means improving creditworthiness and fewer defaults.

Of course it's most unlikely that high yield bonds will deliver returns even close to 2012's
performance. On the other hand, they don't have to equal last year's return to warrant
holding today.

While yields are near all-time lows, yield spreads tell a very different story. Today the average
spread on our U.S. high yield bond portfolios - approximately 490 basis points - is toward the
high end of the normal historical range we've invested in for nearly three decades. We believe
such an average spread provides more-than-adequate compensation for our default experience,
which over the last 27 years has averaged 1.4% per annum. With corporate balance sheets in
relatively good shape (thanks in large part to all of the refinancing activity over the past two
years), the capital markets awash in liquidity, and economies (at least in the U.S.) showing some

strength, default rates are projected to remain below the long-term average for at least the next
twelve months.

Given their current average yield spread, we estimate that our portfolios could suffer a default
rate of approximately 9% every year and still do no worse than Treasurys - and it's worth noting
that we have never had even one year with a 9% default rate. So we don't think high yield bonds
are overpriced in relative terms. In fact, we feel the odds favor their delivering relative
performance that is superior to Treasurys and high grade corporates over multi-year
holding periods ahead.

Finally, let's consider the potential absolute result for high yield bonds from today. Suppose we
hold (or buy) high yield bonds currently at around 5.7% average yield, and we have Oaktree's
average experience: an annual default rate of 1.4% and loss of about half the money invested in
the defaulting bonds, or 0.7% of our portfolio per year. This results in 5% net return per year
before fees and price fluctuations. Given the alternatives today, that's an attractive
absolute return. What else is better?

If interest rates rise and/or yield spreads expand, we will suffer price declines (as will holders of
all other fixed-rate securities). But if Oaktree is right in its credit judgments, those declines
will prove to be temporary. The bonds will be paid off at par upon maturity, and if the other
assumptions above are met the 5% return will be achieved.

While we believe spreads are attractive given the risks we see in our portfolios, it is true that
there is little room for price upside, making the reward for risk taking limited. (This is in essence
what Howard concluded in his most recent memo, "Ditto.") In this type of environment,
superior returns are more likely to be earned through minimizing mistakes than through
stretching for yield. Rather than behaving aggressively, the search for return should
involve risk control, caution, discipline and selectivity. Of course, this is what we emphasize
in our portfolios.

Considering these factors, should investors sell their high yield bonds and wait for a better time
to invest? We don't think so, as market timing is next to impossible to do right and costly to
attempt in less liquid markets like high yield bonds.


Memo: The Outlook for Equities.

It doesn‟t take much to get me started on a memo. In this case one sentence was enough, in an article
from the February 4 online edition of Pensions & Investments, as described by FierceFinance on
February 28: "The long-term equity risk premium is typically between 4.5% and 5%."

There‟s little I hate more than investment generalizations. For years, for example, self-styled authorities
on the high yield bond market would say "bond defaults typically take place 2-3 years after issuance."
That always set my teeth on edge. The time to default might average 2-3 years, but unless (1) that‟s also
the most common time period (the mode) and (2) not a highly variable parameter (which I think it is), that
generalization is absolutely useless.

In fact, I like the way Mark Twain summed up on the subject more than 100 years ago: "all
generalizations are false, including this one." I consider most investment generalizations as useless as
that great oxymoron: "common sense."

Back to equity risk premiums. The FierceFinance article in question led with the sentence, "The „great
rotation‟ back into equities from bonds is unlikely to be seen in 2013 among most defined benefit pension
funds in major markets, including the U.S., U.K. and Netherlands." It included a number of what I
consider provocative statements:

 that pension funds do want fewer bonds but generally not more stocks (raising the question of
 where the money will go, and specifically how much money can responsibly be absorbed in asset
 classes other than stocks and bonds),

 that, according to one consultant "There is recognition that bonds represent minimal-risk assets,
 so it‟s difficult for (plan executives) to abandon bonds in favor of equities. . ." (This overlooks the
 fact that there‟s no such thing as a minimal-risk asset regardless of price, and few assets that have
 been the beneficiaries of years of strong cash inflows can really be "minimal-risk"), and

 "that investors are taking short-term tactical advantage of the rising equity premium by, for
 example, allowing multiasset managers to drift toward the higher end of the equity allocation
 range."

So there we are, in the third bullet point, back to the matter of the equity risk premium.

Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Equity Risk Premiums (and Much More)

The equity risk premium is generally defined as, "the excess return that an individual stock or the overall
stock market provides over a risk-free rate." (Investopedia) Thus it is the incremental return that
investors in equities receive relative to the risk-free rate as compensation for bearing the risk involved.

The term is also used to describe the extent to which the return on stocks exceeds the return on bonds,
again as compensation for bearing incremental risk. (For example, an August 18, 2011 article on the
Seeking Alpha website, entitled "What the Equity Risk Premium Is Saying," discusses the prospects for
stocks versus the ten-year U.S. Treasury note.)

My real problem with the term - or, more correctly, the way it‟s used - has to do with one of the littlest
words in the English language. Or, to paraphrase a former President of the United States, "it all depends
on the meaning of the word is."

Many people know what they think they mean when they talk about the existence and magnitude of the
equity risk premium - or even what they actually mean - but I don‟t think many are logical or consistent
in using it. My complaints surround the definition they apply to the term, and specifically the tense of the
verb they employ (I‟m not just being grammatically picky).

Most specifically, I strongly dislike the use of the present tense, as exemplified by the writer for P&I:
"The long-term equity risk premium is typically between 4.5% and 5%." This suggests that the premium
is something that solidly exists in a fixed amount and can be counted on to pay off in the future.

Imagine instead that she had said "The long-term equity risk premium has typically been between 4.5%
and 5%." This makes the premium seem more like a historical fact but also less dependable in the future
(probably as it should be).

The equity risk premium can actually be defined at least four different ways, I think:

 1. The historic excess of equity returns over the risk-free rate.
 2. The minimum incremental return that people demanded in the past to make them shift from the
 risk-free asset to equities.
 3. The minimum incremental return that people are demanding today to make them shift away from
 the risk-free asset and into equities.
 4. The margin by which equity returns will exceed the risk-free rate in the future.

The four uses for the term are different and, importantly, all four are applied from time to time. And I‟m
sure the four uses are often confused. Clearly the import of the term is very different depending on which
definition is chosen. The one that really matters, in my opinion, is the fourth: what will be the
payoff from equity investing. It's also the one about which it's least reasonable to use the word
"is," as if the risk premium is a fact.

What Will Equities Give You?

There are problems with at least three of the four meanings. Only number one can be measured. There‟s
a lot of data on the historic performance of stocks versus bonds and cash. In fact, in the 1990s Wharton
Professor Jeremy Siegel documented to a fare-thee-well that stocks always won out over long periods of
time. Of course the subsequent decade proved that didn‟t have to remain the case.

Now it gets more interesting. Although we can calculate the amount by which stocks outperformed bonds
or cash in the past (assuming you were looking at periods prior to 2000), I don‟t think that‟s the same as
saying what risk premium was demanded by investors in the sense of definition number two above. If
stocks outperformed by 5% over a ten-year period, that doesn‟t mean people demanded a 5% higher
return to buy equities rather than bonds or the risk-free asset. They might have "demanded" more or less.
It‟s just that they got 5%.

In a similar vein, we can also talk about number three, the minimum return increment people are
demanding today. But (a) the answer you come up with will depend on whom you ask, (b) they may or
may not have given it rigorous thought, and (c) whatever they say is likely to have little impact on what
relative returns turn out to be. Their answer is likely to tell you more about what they think they‟ll get
than about what they‟re actually demanding . . . or what they will get.

What matters for today‟s investor isn‟t what stocks returned in the past, or what equity investors
demanded in the past or think they‟re demanding today. What matters is definition number four, what
relative performance will be in the future. The most important thing of all is to realize that this can't
be read anyplace. As Einstein said, in one of my favorite quotes, "Not everything that counts can be
counted, and not everything that can be counted counts."

Just as number four is the most important definition of the equity risk premium, the questions surrounding
it are also significant. In my view, people tend to think of the equity risk premium (and other risk
premiums) like credit spreads on bonds. I‟ve been dealing with credit spreads for 35 years. They are the
entire raison d'être for high yield bond investing. And they have almost nothing in common with the
equity risk premium.

Let's say we want to assess the adequacy of the reward being offered for bearing the credit risk of a
given B-rated high yield bond. We compute the yield to maturity or yield to call on the bond and
subtract from it the yield to maturity on a Treasury security of the same duration. The result is the "yield
spread" or "credit spread." That spread tells us what the prospective relative return is and - when
assessed in the light of historic spreads, the spreads on other bonds, the riskiness of the bond in question,
and the spreads on other bonds of similar, lesser or greater riskiness - whether the bond is rich or cheap.

Now let's apply the same process to a stock, or the stock market. First, compute the prospective
return on the stock. Oh yeah; right. There's no way to do that. Or rather there is, but it requires one
to either (a) make an assumption about the growth rate of earnings per share to infinity or (b) make an
assumption about the growth rate of earnings for a number of years and also the terminal p/e ratio that the
market will apply to e.p.s. at the end of that period (which in turn will be a function of the growth of
earnings from then to infinity). In other words, a simple mathematical calculation will tell us exactly
what the promised return on a bond is (albeit not the probability that it will be received), while
coming up with the future return for a stock requires making some massive guesses about the far-
off future. That difference - in a nutshell - encapsulates a lot of the fundamental difference
between investing in stocks and bonds.

The bottom line: given that it‟s impossible to say with any accuracy what return a stock or the stock
market will deliver, it‟s equally impossible to say what the prospective equity risk premium is. The
historic excess of stock returns over the risk-free rate may tell you the answer according to
definition number one, with relevance depending on which period you choose, but it doesn't say
anything about the other three . . . and especially not number four: the margin by which equity
returns will exceed the risk-free rate in the future.

Another Call for Counter-Intuitiveness

Many of the important things about investing are counterintuitive. Low-quality assets can be safer than
high-quality assets. Things get riskier as they become more highly respected (and thus appreciate). There
can be more risk in thinking you know something than in accepting that you don‟t. This counter-
intuitiveness is a favorite theme of mine.

And the theme is importantly at work with regard to the equity risk premium, and especially P&I‟s use of
the term. I take great issue with their statement "The long-term equity risk premium is typically between
4.5% and 5%." That may be what it "was" or "has been," but it doesn't tell us anything about what
it "is" or "will be." We know we can‟t extrapolate returns on bonds or the risk-free asset from the past;
certainly changes in interest rates over the last five years mean investors in these things will enjoy far
lower returns in the years ahead than they used to. So then is it possible to know what we will get from
equities? Or from equities relative to bonds or the risk-free rate? Clearly not. Thus I think it's
dangerously misleading to say what the risk premium "is." That‟s probably enough on this subject.

Let‟s move on to the final bullet point on page one and its reference to "the rising equity premium." The
article discusses the case for an attractive equity risk premium in terms of definition number one -
historically superior performance - since it goes on to point out that stocks outperformed bonds by an
unusually large margin in the six months ended January 31, 2013 (11.23% for the Russell 3000 versus
-0.29% for the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index). But do six months of good performance
say anything about a rising equity premium? And do they tell us anything at all about the future?

Well, the answer to the first question lies in which definition you‟re following. Of course the data tells us
what the relative performance was (and 2012 was a great year, for example, with the S&P 500 up roughly
16% while the risk-less rate was close to zero). An equity risk premium defined this way is certainly in
the best part of the historic distribution. But it tells us little about investors‟ past or present demanded
returns. And what does it say about the prospects for continued outperformance?

To me, the answer is simple: the better returns have been, the less likely they are - all other things
being equal - to be good in the future. Generally speaking, I view an asset as having a certain quantum
of return potential over its lifetime. The foundation for its return comes from its ability to produce cash
flow. To that base number we should add further return potential if the asset is undervalued and thus can
be expected to appreciate to fair value, and we should reduce our view of its return potential if it is
overvalued and thus can be expected to decline to fair value.

So - again all other things being equal - when the yearly return on an asset exceeds the rate at which it
produces cash flow (or at which the cash flow grows), the excess of the appreciation over that associated
with its cash flow should be viewed as either reducing the amount of its undervaluation (and thus
reducing the expectable appreciation) or increasing its overvaluation (and thus increasing the price
decline which is likely). The simplest example is a 5% bond. Let‟s say a 5% bond at a given price below
par has a 7% expected return (or yield to maturity) over its remaining life. If the bond returns 15% in the
next twelve months, the expected return over its then-remaining life will be less than 7%. An above-trend
year has borrowed from the remaining potential. The math is simplest with bonds (as always), but the
principle is the same if you own stocks, companies or income-producing real estate.

In other words, appreciation at a rate in excess of the cash flow growth accelerates into the present some
appreciation that otherwise might have happened in the future. Or to paraphrase Warren Buffett, "when
people forget that corporate profits are unlikely to grow faster than 6% per year, they tend to get into
trouble." I doubt he intended anything special about 6%, but rather a reminder that when assets
appreciate faster than the rate at which their value grows, it isn‟t just a windfall but also a warning sign.

Let‟s take a look at the 1990s, a decade full of lessons about equities. As of 1990, the historic return on
equities stood at 9% or 10%, and for that reason attitudes toward them were generally favorable, with that
9-10% return expected to repeat in future decades. But the ‟90s were a salutary period in terms of
economic growth, corporate performance, technological and productivity gains, declining interest rates,
low inflation and relative peace in the world (as well as naïve optimism regarding the benefits of a credit-

fueled expansion, the profit potential of e-commerce companies, and the extent to which equity gains
could be perpetuated). As a result, equity returns averaged 20% per year over the decade.

What was investors' response? They ratcheted up their expectations. I believe by 2000 the
professional consensus for future equity returns had risen from the 9-10% range to 11%. A decade of the
highest returns in history had convinced people that more good years lay ahead. Few people seemed
concerned that the extraordinary returns of the 1990s might have borrowed from the 2000s (as certainly
seems to have been the case in retrospect). As a result, just when stock prices were reaching levels they
wouldn‟t see again for more than a decade, bonds were being dumped so that equity allocations could be
expanded to all-time highs.

When I look at the P&I article, I see a statement that the equity risk premium is on the rise, but not a lot
of reason why equities will do better in the future than they have in the past (or even specific mention of
which past they‟ll do better than). Extrapolation or analysis? They're two very different things.

Valuing Stocks Today

The underlying reason it took so little from FierceFinance to get me going on this memo is that I had a lot
of pent-up thoughts about equities and their current valuation. That‟s what the following pages will be
spent on.

Ironically given the extent to which I railed above about limiting the importance attached to the equity
risk premium, some of the strongest arguments for stocks today surround their relative earning power. In
view of the difficulty in quantifying the prospective returns on stocks, appraising their value relative to
bonds or the risk-free asset is often best done through comparing their yields.

Since most companies pay out a modest percentage of their earnings, dividend yields greatly understate
companies‟ ability to earn money for their shareholders, and thus for their stocks to appreciate. A better
measure of stocks‟ long-term potential may be found in their "earnings yield." The earnings yield is the
reciprocal of the p/e ratio: the e/p ratio or ratio of earnings to price. To gauge relative price-
attractiveness, it isn‟t unreasonable to compare the earnings yield on a stock against the yield on a bond
(or against the risk-free rate).

Let‟s review a few data points:

 If the post-WWII average p/e ratio on equities was something like 16 (for an e/p ratio of 1/16, or
 an earnings yield of about 6.25%) and if I guess at a "normal" risk-free rate of 3%, we get a
 historic yield differential - we might call it the equity risk premium, defined this way - of 3.25%
 (6.25% minus 3.00%), or 325 basis points. The ratio between the yields was 6.25%/3.00%, or

 At the high in 2000, the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 was more like 32 (for an e/p ratio of 1/32, or an
 earnings yield of 3.12%), and the 30-day T-bill rate was probably 2%. In that case the yield
 differential or equity risk premium was a skimpy 1.12% (3.12% minus 2.00%), or 112 basis
 points, and the ratio of the two was only 3.12%/2.00%, or 1.56x. In other words, stocks didn‟t
 offer enough relative to fixed income, and that‟s the main reason why they‟ve performed so
 poorly - both in absolute terms and relative to bonds - over the thirteen years since.

 Where are we today? The p/e ratio on the S&P 500 is back to about 16, meaning the earnings
 yield is 6.25% once again. I‟ll use a 30-day T-bill rate of 1.00% (it‟s actually closer to zero, but a
 yield ratio approaching infinity wouldn‟t be meaningful). That gives us a yield differential of
 5.25% (6.25% minus 1.00%), or 525 basis points, and a yield ratio of 6.25%/1.00%, or 6.25x.

So let‟s recap:

Certainly the yield comparison is highly favorable for stocks today. In fact it‟s one of the best in the last
century (probably barring only the early 1980s, when the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 fell to mid-single
digits). Is that the whole story? It never is; nothing‟s that simple, especially in the world of investing.

The problem with basing a pro-equities argument on the yield comparison is that most of equities'
current attraction on that basis comes from the lowness of interest rates. Just about everyone
knows (a) interest rates are artificially low because of central banks' efforts at stimulus and (b)
rates will be considerably higher at some point in the intermediate term. In that case, rising rates
would render stocks less attractive (all other things being equal, but they‟re not - see below).

The Other Pros and Cons of Equities

There are many ways to view valuation, and many elements in the current debate over equities. Here are
a few of them (I‟ll start by reiterating the above for the sake of completeness):

 The differential between the S&P earnings yield and the risk-free rate or the yields on bonds -
 and their ratio - makes stocks look extremely cheap. PRO

 The attractiveness of these relative valuation parameters is highly dependent on interest rates
 staying low. CON (or LESS PRO)

 Relative to normal post-WWII p/e ratios, stock prices are average to slightly low as a multiple of
 projected earnings for the year ahead. PRO

 Robert Schiller‟s cycle-adjusted p/e ratios are gaining increased attention, and they suggest full
 rather than fair valuations. CON

 Arguably earnings growth in the years ahead will be slower than that which prevailed in the
 decades following WWII. Thus the post-war valuation norms are too high under the changed
 circumstances and should be discounted. CON

 The outlook for earnings is restrained by the questionable macro environment, including the
 challenges in restarting growth and the dire prognosis for the federal deficit. These problems may
 not be easily solved. CON

 Among the things keeping earnings high - and thus making stocks seem attractive - are some of
 the highest profit margins in history. If profit margins were to move toward normal levels, this

 would bring down earnings, either taking stock prices down with them or lifting p/e ratios and
 thus reducing stocks‟ attractiveness. CON

 Corporate cash hoards are high, implying some combination of safety, potential for stock
 buybacks, and possible dividend increases. These are all good for shareholders. PRO

 Investor attitudes toward stocks remain tepid (see below). PRO

 However, with the S&P 500 up 16% last year and 10% so far this year, it can‟t be argued that
 stocks have been overlooked and or that attitudes towards them are still mired in the doldrums.
 CON

The Role of Investor Attitudes

I covered this subject at length in "Déjà Vu All Over Again" (March 19, 2012). I‟m not going to drag
you through it again, but I will copy over parts of that memo from a year ago:

 . . . people have been throwing in the towel and selling stocks. Other things have come
 into vogue, attracting the capital that used to be invested in stocks. Mutual fund investors
 have turned their attention elsewhere. . . . Stocks have gone through a decade in which
 their absolute return was negligible and their real return was negative. . . . They face a
 litany of negatives, without any real possibility of relief . . .

 The negative factors are clear to the average investor. And from them he draws negative
 conclusions. But the person who applies logic and insight, rather than superficial views
 and emotion, sees something very different.

 He sees an asset class that is unloved. He sees stocks that have cheapened for a decade -
 once dividends have been subtracted from the returns, and especially when prices are
 viewed relative to earnings. He sees securities that are priced below the value of the
 underlying assets on which they have a claim. He sees outflows of capital that, rather
 than being a negative, have lowered prices and can give rise to a strong price rebound
 when and if they reverse. Most of all, he sees an asset class to which no optimism is
 being applied. . . .

The thing to notice about the preceding paragraphs is that when I wrote them a year ago, I
didn't do so to describe then-current market conditions. Rather, I was trying to capture
conditions as they were in 1982, when BusinessWeek magazine carried a cover story
trumpeting "The Death of Equities." My point was that in 1982, overly negative investors
were fixated on the reasons for continued lethargy on the part of stocks, just when the scene was
set for the greatest upsurge in stock market history.

 . . . As something goes in one direction for a while, people conclude increasingly that it
 always will . . . often just when the likelihood grows that it will reverse instead. And that
 was the greatest shortcoming of "The Death of Equities." The extrapolator threw in
 the towel on stocks, just as the time was right for the contrarian to turn optimistic.
 And it will always be so.

I didn‟t think last year that the extent of the undervaluation was anywhere as great as it had been in 1982,
but I did think the conditions were similar in kind. Nothing sets the stage for an upturn as well as
excessive negativism - or at minimum excessive disinterest. And that‟s what I sensed in the stock market
last year, following on the heels of a twelve-year malaise. Thus I don‟t consider it a freak occurrence that
stocks all around the world went on to have an excellent year in 2012.

Many conditions remain similar . . . again, in kind. Equity mutual funds are seeing only modest
inflows, albeit the outflows have stopped. Even though they've appreciated, stocks still aren't
highly valued. Many institutions have allocations to equities that are well below the average of the
last fifty years, and no one's rushing to move them up. In other words, I'm comfortable saying
attitudes toward equities are characterized by relative disinterest and apathy.

This is certainly something that can turn. If it turns, it can have a significant impact. And what is most
likely to turn it? It won‟t necessarily take a "grand bargain" in Washington to solve the nation‟s fiscal
problems, or a sudden rebirth of economic growth worldwide, or the invention of the next iPhone. All
that‟s required is another good year or two for stocks and a switch in investor psychology from "stocks
are unlikely to do anything but extend the „lost decade‟ " to "hey, I‟m afraid I might not be positioned
adequately to participate in the next bull market."

A move upward can be powered by a switch from the fear of losing money to the fear of missing
opportunity. When attitudes are moderate and allocations are low, it doesn't take much.

 * * *

In the mid-1970s I was fortunate to happen upon one of the first of the time-worn pearls of wisdom that
contributed so much to my education as an investor. It described the three stages of a bull market:

 the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone‟s sure things will get better forever.

In "The Tide Goes Out," written in March 2008, several months before the lows of the financial crisis, I
applied the same thinking to the converse - the three stages of a bear market:

 the first, when just a few prudent investors recognize that, despite the prevailing bullishness,
 things won‟t always be rosy,
 the second, when most investors recognize things are deteriorating, and
 the third, when everyone‟s convinced things can only get worse.

Hindsight always makes it clear what was going on at a particular point in time. It‟s a snap now to say
the second quarter of 2007 marked the third stage of a bull market: no one could think of a way to lose
money. And in the fourth quarter of 2008 (for credit) and the first quarter of 2009 (for equities), we were
certainly in the third stage of a bear market: most people thought the financial system was about to
collapse, and securities that had halved in price could do nothing but halve again.

But the study of market history only makes us better investors if it teaches us how to assess
conditions as they are, rather than in retrospect. When I wrote "Déjà Vu All Over Again" a year ago,
it was my feeling that equities were in the first stage of a bull market. Experience had been so bad for so

long - and the level of disinterest was so high - that only a few investors thought equities could ever
catch on again. Those low expectations, when combined with modest fundamental and psychological
improvement, gave the S&P 500 a return of about 13% over the year since that memo was written.

So now we have a somewhat improved fundamental environment, a generally more optimistic group of
investors, and stock prices that are a fair bit higher. No one should say the likelihood of improvement
is entirely unrecognized today, as would have to be the case for this to still be stage one. I think the
existence of improvement is generally accepted, but that acceptance is neither extremely
widespread nor terribly overdone. Thus I'd say we're somewhere in the first half of stage two.
Pessimists no longer control market prices, but certainly neither have carefree optimists taken over.

 * * *

A great rotation? Maybe . . . or maybe not. Nowadays pundits and the media are quick to come up
with cute labels - usually just the right size for a headline or sound bite - to describe things that are taking
place or that "everyone knows" are just around the corner. I don't know whether it's going to be great.
Heck, I don't even know if it'll happen. But I like to enumerate the pros and cons and try to put them in
perspective, as much as I like skewering excessive generalizations and pat pronouncements.

Of course, doing that isn‟t enough. I feel I should come down on one side or the other. Thus I'm quite
comfortable imagining a few years of equity performance that provide a pleasant surprise relative
to what I think is the prevailing expectation of 6% or so per year.

And if I‟m wrong - if there is no rotation from fixed income to stocks - I‟m not that worried that I‟ll end
up with great regret over having failed to pile into T-bills yielding zero or the 10-year note guaranteeing
2.0%. When attitudes are moderate and allocations are low, like I feel is currently the case with equities,
there‟s little likelihood of investing being a big mistake. And when interest rates are among the lowest in
history, it would take deflation, depression or calamity to make failing to invest in Treasurys and high
grade bonds a serious omission.


Memo: The Role of Confidence.

Confidence is generally defined as belief in one's ability to choose a course of action and execute
on it. Although it's not part of the definitions I've consulted, I think confidence also connotes
optimism (at least it does among investors). Finally, there's an element of certainty: beyond an
optimistic view of the future, there's conviction that view is correct. Taken together, the
ingredients I see in confidence - belief, optimism and certainty - combine to create a feeling
of well-being. Confident investors are sure big returns lie ahead.

The Confidence Effect

The so-called "wealth effect" plays an important and well recognized part in the functioning of
an economy. In short, when assets appreciate in value, the owners of those assets translate their
increased wealth into increased spending. While at first glance this is unsurprising, it should be
noted that this is true even if the appreciation is unrealized, and thus the increased wealth exists
solely on paper. The relationship can be simply stated as follows: the richer people feel, the
more they spend.

Changes in confidence have an impact on behavior similar to the wealth effect. That's what this
memo is about.

I have long been impressed by the role of confidence in an economy. In fact, I've written in the
past - exaggerating only slightly - that sometimes I think confidence is all that matters. I
consider its impact to be significant, pervasive, self-reinforcing and self-fulfilling.

The primary impact of confidence on the economy is simple. If people think the economic
future will be good, they'll spend and invest . . . thus things will be good.

 Consumers' optimism will translate into incremental demand for goods, adding to GDP.
 Consumer buying will convince businesses to invest in expanded facilities and additional
 workers in order to keep up with growing demand.
 Businesses' investment in plant and workers will add to GDP.
 Newly hired workers will have money to spend, and their buying will add further to the
 cycle.
 The reports of confidence-fueled increases in GDP and other positive mentions of the
 economy in the media will reinforce this virtuous circle of optimism: back to step one.

So, just like the wealth effect, increased confidence makes people and businesses spend more,
and this in turn cycles back into the economy. Confidence leads to spending; spending

strengthens the economy; and economic strength buttresses confidence. It's a circular, self-
fulfilling prophesy.

Confidence can also fuel market movements. Belief that the price of an asset will rise causes
people to buy the asset . . . making its price rise. This is another way in which confidence is self-
fulfilling.

Of course, the confidence that underlies economic gains and price increases only has an impact
as long as it exists. Once it dies, its effect turns out to be far from permanent. As the economist
Herb Stein said, "If something cannot go on forever, it will stop." This is certainly true for
confidence and its influence.

Confidence Today

Back in September, I wrote a memo entitled "On Uncertain Ground." It began as follows: "The
world seems more uncertain today than at any other time in my life." I went on to review the
many elements contributing to uncertainty. For the sake of completeness, I'm going to restate
and update my list. These are things I'm asked about all the time. I don't recall another time
when the list was as long:

In the U.S.:

 Will the recovery from the recession of 2008 - long in the tooth but still halting and
 unsteady - ever gain vitality? Today it seems we're experiencing "two steps forward,
 one step back," as positive reports are regularly mixed with disappointments. Further,
 even the improvements - in areas like job creation, consumer confidence and
 manufacturing output - seem tepid rather than eye-popping. This is quite different from
 the recoveries of the last few decades.
 To what extent will the recovery be impaired by recent tax increases and the budget cuts
 mandated by "sequestration"?
 When will sales increases overcome businesses' resistance to spending on plant and
 personnel?
 How much longer will the Fed keep interest rates low? Three months? Three years? In
 perpetuity?
 What will happen when it no longer does? Will rates rise? How much? Will the effect
 of higher rates on the cost of financing purchases and investments be enough to slow the
 economy? And what will be the impact of higher rates on the government's cost of
 financing, and thus on the deficit?
 What are the implications of the fact that the Fed's balance sheet has swelled to over $3
 trillion? How does the Fed pay for the bonds it buys under QE? Will it have to pay that
 money back? Will the Treasury have to pay off the Fed when the debt matures? Where
 will it get the money? And where will the money go? (Think about this for a minute: do
 you feel you understand the workings of this process? Do you know anyone who does?)
 Will our economy ever get back to the higher growth rates of the late twentieth century,
 or will we be stuck in a slow-growth mode?

 Will "structural unemployment" in the future remain stubbornly above the 5% or so of
 the last few decades?
 Will profit margins retreat from their current record levels, and if so, what will be the
 effect on corporate profits?
 Longer term, can progress ever be made on cutting the budget deficit and reducing the
 unfunded entitlement obligations?
 What will be the social ramifications of slow growth, high unemployment and increased
 income disparity?
 Will the U.S. devalue the dollar, the usual path to dealing with excessive national debt?
 Will slow growth lead to Japan-style deflation? Or will high-volume money printing to
 make it easier to repay the debt bring on chronic inflation? (The mere fact that intelligent
 people worry simultaneously about both these polar opposites is in itself an indicator of
 the high level of uncertainty that is present.)

In Europe:

 Can the seeming downward spiral in peripheral Europe's economies be arrested?
 Can Europe's excessive indebtedness be brought down, and can the chronic deficits that
 led to that level of indebtedness be trimmed through austerity?
 Will richer nations continue to support poorer without insisting on the latter applying
 painful austerity?
 In practical terms, can austerity be undertaken at a time of economic weakness? If
 austerity is continued, are recession, suffering and unrest unavoidable?
 Won't voters demand isolationism in the richer nations and relief from the pain of
 austerity in the poorer nations? Won't elected leaders offering anything else be ousted?
 Will the highly restrictive regulations and labor laws be eased so as to enable Europe to
 compete on an equal footing with the rest of the world?
 Longer term, will the nations of Europe give a central body the control over economies
 and financial institutions required for an effective economic union?
 Will UK voters vote in the coming referendum to stay in the European Union or leave?
 Will the EU remain intact? Is a political union in which actions require unanimous
 support practical? Can governance and coordination be improved?

Regarding Leadership:

 Are there leaders - anywhere in the world - of the caliber we need to see us through these
 uncertain times?
 Can officials who seek re-election first and foremost rise to the occasion and make the
 tough decisions needed to apply unpopular solutions to problems, rather than palliative
 Band-Aids?
 Will the successors to Geithner and Bernanke prove up to the task of continuing the
 recovery while weaning the economy from ultra-low interest rates?
 Is it conceivable that America's elected leaders will create an environment in which
 uncertainty over taxation, regulation and healthcare costs no longer discourages
 businesses from investing in plant and personnel?

Miscellany:

 Will China's credit-abetted economy experience a hard landing or a soft one?
 If China's growth slows, what will be the effect on nations such as Brazil, Australia and
 Canada that have prospered by supplying it with commodities? What will happen to
 commodity prices?
 Will Prime Minister Abe's monetary and fiscal program be enough to wake Japan's
 economy from its lethargy?
 Will fracking allow the U.S. to achieve energy self-sufficiency? If so, what will that do
 to its manufacturing competitiveness and to the price of oil?
 What will happen in hot spots such as the Middle East, Iran and North Korea?

Significant uncertainty is one of the outstanding characteristics of today's investing environment.
It discourages optimism regarding the future and limits investors' certainty that the future is
knowable and controllable. In other words, it saps confidence. This is a major difference from
conditions in the pre-crisis years.

Confidence in 2007

When I think about how the investment environment of today differs from earlier times,
the greatest change of all jumps out at me. Let's go back to just before the onset of the sub-
prime crisis in mid-2007. I think in those days most people were 100% certain they knew:

 what made the global economy tick,
 what the economic and business world would look like in five or ten years, and
 what it would take to fix something that went wrong.

Belief in the things listed above largely eliminated uncertainty regarding the future and
contributed to an extremely high level of confidence. No one thinks that way today.

Confidence: Good or Bad?

Let's say I have accurately described that confidence, optimism and certainty were high in 2007
and low in 2013. Here's a key question that I've been wrestling with: which is more
desirable?

The answer is largely a function of your timeframe. The high level of confidence in 2007 - not
unlike that of the 1990s - contributed to a feeling of great well-being. The feeling that nothing
would go wrong - that a perpetual-motion machine could be counted on to keep things on
an upward course forever - contributed to rampant consumer optimism, aggressive
spending, rising economic aggregates, accommodative capital markets and strong asset
prices. It sure felt good.

But was it desirable? It was not, in my view, because hindsight shows perception to have been
very much out of proportion with reality, and thus dangerous:

 Consumer confidence, and thus spending, was too high relative to incomes.
 Excessive spending - all around the world, at all economic levels - led to excessive use
 of credit, making the world highly overleveraged.
 Buying fueled by confidence and leverage caused asset prices to rise out of proportion to
 value.

I often say the riskiest thing in the world is widespread belief that there's no risk. And certainly
that was the prevailing condition in the pre-crisis years of 2005-07, as well as during the tech
bubble of the late 1990s. In both instances the "era of well-being" was followed by a significant
economic slowdown and market decline.

A feel-good environment characterized by strong confidence creates pleasant current
conditions but encourages dangerous behavior and an ascent (in the economy and the
markets) from which a correction becomes inevitable. In that way, the less confident
attitudes of 2013 create a lackluster, less enjoyable environment, but also a preferable and
more prudent base for the future. (The wild card, as described in "Ditto," January 7, 2013, is
that the actions of central banks to lower interest rates have caused even unconfident investors to
engage in pro-risk behavior, setting the stage for the market declines of June and perhaps for
additional pain in the future.)

I've previously told the story of having been in New York on 9/11, and of requiring several days
to get back to Los Angeles. When I eventually reached home, my son Andrew asked me, "Dad,
is the world less safe than it used to be?" My answer was, "Maybe it's less safe than it used to
be, or maybe it was never as safe as everyone thought it was." Certainly it's healthier to
recognize and accept uncertainty than to act as if the world is a safe place if it's not. That
goes double for the world of investing.

The Pendulum in Confidence

I probably write more about the pendulum of investor psychology than I do anything else. It was
the subject of my second memo, in 1991, and my belief in its impact has grown unabated ever
since.

The pendulum swings with regard to many facets of the market, and it often swings to extremes:

 between optimism and pessimism,
 between greed and fear,
 between euphoria and depression,
 between credulousness and skepticism,
 between risk tolerance and risk aversion, and thus
 between reckless aggressiveness and excessive caution.

While the pendulum moves with regard to all these things, the swinging movement, the extent
and the error all reflect common themes. They're all examples of the ways in which, as Mark
Twain said, history rhymes.

Let's take for an example one regard in which the pendulum swings: investor attitudes toward
emerging markets. Sometimes they're considered scary and exotic places, and sometimes
they're the attractive high-growth alternative to the stagnant developed world. When people
have confidence in the emerging markets and see only their virtues, the stocks sell at U.S.-style
p/e ratios (where they're described as being cheap given the superior growth rates). But when
problems emerge and confidence falters, investors will only buy emerging market stocks at
discount p/e's so as to have the benefit of the risk premiums they consider necessary. I've seen
this swing - just like the others - numerous times.

I'm thinking back to 1994, when NAFTA was enacted, easing trade in North America. People
were in awe of Mexico: "It's just like the U.S., but it grows much faster." So money flowed to
Mexican stocks, and they boomed. But then, in short order, there occurred a revolt in the state of
Chiapas, the assassination of a presidential candidate, and the devaluation of the Mexican peso,
triggering the so-called "Tequila Crisis." And the pendulum swung back toward concern: "Oh,
right - there are differences."

And just a few years ago, the consensus of investors held that it was all over for the developed
world, and China was the only economy with potential thanks to its growing population, low
labor costs and expanding consumer class. As a result there was too much confidence in China
and too little in the rest of the world. China does have many advantages, and the problems of the
developed world aren't imaginary. But that doesn't mean Chinese equities are worth the moon
and developed world equities are without value. So after Chinese stocks did much better than
developed world stocks in 2009, they were primed for subsequent underperformance.

Now with China reporting slower growth - and with the threat of reduced bond buying by the
Fed eating into expectations for growth worldwide (and, with it, demand for China's exports) -
confidence in China has receded. As a hedge fund strategist said in The Wall Street Journal on
July 15, "It's not all sunshine in emerging markets anymore."

Summing up, I think it's fair to say one of the key swings of the investment pendulum is
between too much confidence and too little.

 At the positive extreme, people believe only good outcomes are possible, and that they
 (or their managers) are competent to fashion portfolios that will expose them to all of the
 market's gains and few of its losses, to pick the winners and avoid the losers, and to ride
 the market's rise and get out just as it crests.

 And at the negative extreme, they conclude only bad outcomes are possible, and that any
 efforts to add value or cope with the market's vicissitudes on their part or the part of their
 now-defrocked managers will be utterly unavailing.

As we've seen endless times, investors reach the overconfident state when things have been
going well for a while, meaning prices have already soared. And, alternatively, the latter
hopeless state is inevitably reached after a bubble has been punctured, the news has turned
unremittingly negative, and prices have collapsed.

This is the pattern that makes the herd wrong at the extremes and creates the rewards for
contrarianism. And it's behind my favorite Warren Buffett quote: "the less prudence with which
others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own
affairs." When most investors are driven to drop their prudence by an excess of confidence,
we should be terrified. In the same way, when most investors become devoid of confidence
and flee the market, we should turn aggressive.

All Good or All Bad?

One of the things worth noting about the swing in confidence is not merely that it rises and falls,
but that it is often marked by "all-good" or "all-bad" thinking. In short, when investors are
optimistic regarding the future:

 They tend to see the positives, by which they're incredibly impressed, and overlook the
 negatives.
 If they consider negatives at all, they fall for rationalizations that refute them. Foremost
 here is the old standby: "It's different this time."
 Isolated positive developments, often random or fortuitous, are generalized into an
 irresistible virtuous circle. Coincidences are accepted as part of a bullet-proof cause-and-
 effect process.

This unobjective process eliminates balanced analysis and leads to dangerously
unwarranted levels of confidence, and thus of investment risk.

The years leading up to the financial crisis of 2008 were marked by the most extreme all-good
thinking I've ever seen. In fact, when The New York Times asked me to write an article on the
cause of the crisis, the one I wrote was titled "Too Much Trust; Too Little Worry." I said an
excessive level of confidence had caused investors in 2005-07 to:

 stop applying skepticism,
 stop worrying about losing money,
 stop doing thorough due diligence,
 stop factoring in conservative assumptions,
 stop applying risk aversion,
 stop denying capital to risky schemes, and
 stop demanding adequate risk premiums.

In mid-2007 I was working on a memo with the projected title "The Mother of All Cycles." But
I got worried about how people would react to my borrowing a phrase from Saddam Hussein, so

when it was published on July 16, I changed the title to "It's All Good." In the memo I
complained that every asset class, every asset and every region was appreciating.

 In terms of amplitude, breadth and potential ramifications, I consider it the
 strongest, most heated upswing I've witnessed. A lot of this is because people
 seem to think everything's good and likely to stay that way.

As I saw it, overconfident investors were ignoring the possibility of things going down as well as
up, swallowing promises of limitless potential, suspending disbelief, accepting financial
innovation as sure to work, and embracing the trend toward increased leverage.

Of course, this house of cards fell apart in short order. Thus that memo was followed by "It's
All Good . . . Really?" two weeks later, on July 30, and then by "Now It's All Bad?" on
September 10. In just eight weeks, confidence had evaporated and been replaced by widespread
pessimism. And just a year after that, we witnessed the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the
onset of the worst financial crisis in 80 years.

What this reminds us is how dangerous the world can be when confidence is too high and
people are too comfortable. Also, the speed with which things can reverse demonstrates, as my
partner Sheldon Stone says, that the air goes out of the balloon much faster than it goes in. It
usually takes years for confidence to reach a dangerous zenith, but then only weeks or months
for it to collapse.

When people conclude that all the merit is on either the positive or negative side of the argument,
they reach extreme conviction regarding their view of the future and become certain they know

what to do. But all-good or all-bad attitudes are rarely right, since there are invariably valid
points on both sides and they mustn't be ignored. Mark Twain said, "It ain't what you don't
know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so." Most of the
time, limits on confidence are more desirable than cocksureness. Over-confidence in one's
judgment is very dangerous.

The Bull/Bear Cycle

In March 2008, in "The Tide Goes Out," I repeated one of the most helpful of all the adages to
which I hold - the description of the three stages of a bull market:

 the first stage, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone's sure things will get better forever.

What does it really mean? The essential raw material for a bull market is cheapness, and
that cheapness exists in stage one precisely because there are so few believers and so little
confidence that favorable developments and good times lie ahead. Thus stage one provides
the launching pad for a bull market.

Equally, in the third stage the bull market is primed to end - with the bubble popping and a
down-cycle setting in - for the simple reason that there are too many believers (and too few
skeptics). In short, there's too much confidence and too little cheapness. It's this imbalance
that creates market tops. The extremeness of the bull-market upswing - just like the
downswing of its bear-market counterpart - gives investors what should be an important signal.

The Sure Thing

Investors may profess confidence in their ability to grapple with the future, but deep down many
sense their own limitations and feel at sea. Thus they're prime targets for the newly minted
"silver bullet" that's touted as sure to deliver return without commensurate risk. They develop
outsized confidence in it, especially if at first it provides the hoped-for results. The most
attractive of these are often mechanical, since their perfection stems from a dependable machine
rather than a mysterious swami.

 In 1987, investors fell for "portfolio insurance," under which they could take on
 disproportionately large equity allocations, secure in the knowledge that if the market
 started down, the technique would automatically enter sell orders. But when the Dow
 Jones Industrial Average fell 22.6% on Black Monday (October 19), many brokerage
 firms refused to answer their phones, the sell orders weren't executed, and the "sure
 thing" turned out not to be.

 In the early 2000s, "portable alpha" promised high returns by overlaying hedge funds
 with equity futures. But when stocks fell, it became clear that the previous high returns

 had come not from the value added by a dependable process, but from the fact that in
 essence the futures had allowed people to be more than 100% invested in a rising market.

 And more recently, "risk parity investing" worked through volatile times because it gave
 its followers greater strategic diversification, defensiveness and bond exposure than most
 other investors had. But it, like most other things, failed to prevent losses when Ben
 Bernanke spooked the market by threatening to ease off bond buying and let interest rates
 rise. This year's results for risk parity show that nothing works all the time.

The point is that no mechanical tools can enable investors to prosper under all
circumstances. They can provide tilts or reduce exposures, but the tool that promises a mix
of good results and great results without the possibility of bad results is too good to be true.
And when excessive confidence develops in such things, investors are heading for trouble.

The same is true for the Greenspan put and its successor, the Bernanke put. Alan Greenspan's
tenure as Fed chairman was marked by efforts to avoid problems by injecting liquidity and
lowering interest rates. Investors put great stock in his ability to keep things moving ever
upward. His policies prevented occasional corrections along the way, but the price paid was a
big one: the financial crisis of 2008. Those who had believed in Greenspan's omnipotence were
unprepared for the consequences. Ben Bernanke succeeded Greenspan, and his own successor is
likely to be announced soon. We must beware of equally excessive confidence in any
individual's abilities.

There is no magic solution. Nothing and no one can render economies, markets or portfolio
results capable of rising but never falling. Awareness of that is wise. Belief to the contrary is
dangerous.

 * * *

As mentioned above, I think recently many investors have been holding riskier positions than are
natural for them, largely because, thanks to the Fed's low-rate policies, the lower-risk things they
might have preferred offered so little return. Thus their investing actions were coerced, rather
than being undergirded by confidence in the fundamentals.

The uncertainty that has been present in the last few years should have had a healthy effect on
the environment by calling for a high level of prudence . . . if the Fed had let it take effect. But
instead the Fed forced people into risk taking, and the combination of risk taking and weak
resolve had the anticipatable effect when the first doubts reared their heads.

In May, Chairman Bernanke indicated that with the economy performing acceptably, the Fed's
bond buying might soon taper off, implying that higher interest rates were acceptable. This
shouldn't have come as a surprise, since when recovery occurs, a reduction of stimulus should be
anticipated. The stock and bond markets' subsequent dramatic swoons showed that the
fundamental confidence underlying investors' holdings of risk assets had been weak and

vulnerable, and that there had been too much reliance on the Fed keeping rates low. All of a
sudden investors were less sure the world looked right, what the future held, and how to make
money in it.

Investors remain uncertain, and that's good. Now that a bout of worry has been experienced, the
credit markets are healthier (e.g., offering higher returns) than they were two months ago.

If the economy continues to recover and the Fed's bond buying eases off, interest rates are likely
to go further on the upside. But given the modest level of confidence at play, the markets should
not turn out to be perilous. Most assets are neither dangerously elevated (with the possible
exception of long-term Treasury bonds and high grades) nor compellingly cheap. It's easier to
know what to do at the extremes than it is in the middle ground, where I believe we are
today. As I wrote in my book, when there's nothing clever to do, the mistake lies in trying
to be clever. Today it seems the best we can do is invest prudently in the coming months,
avoiding aggressiveness and remembering to apply caution.

 * * *

A word about the long run: While conditions, confidence and asset prices all seem
moderate today, meaning there's nothing brilliant to say about the short-term outlook, the
long term remains worrisome. Because the U.S. is still able to attract capital from abroad and
print money, our financial problems aren't pressing at the moment. But the combination of
intractable deficit spending, unsustainable entitlement promises and a total dearth of responsible
action in Washington certainly raises alarms regarding the future.

Since I see no reason to reinvent the wheel when someone I respect has said something better
than I could, I'll close with a few words from Seth Klarman (emphasis added). Seth doesn't find
much in the things he discusses to inspire confidence, and I agree:

 There is no free lunch in economics: if governments could print or borrow money
 in astronomical amounts without any major adverse consequences, why wouldn't
 they always do this, forever avoiding downturns while their countries bask in the
 sunshine of limitless prosperity? Indeed it seems clear that prior misplaced
 confidence in the Fed contributed greatly to years of complacency that turned the
 2008 downturn into a full-blown crisis. Of course there will be a price to pay for
 today's policy excesses - an equal and opposite reaction. We just haven't seen it
 yet. Will it take the form of a collapse of the dollar and the end of dollar
 hegemony, high interest rates, failed auctions of U.S. government securities and
 runaway inflation, a wrenching and protracted downturn requiring exceptional
 sacrifice, or something else? We will find out soon enough.

 In most sectors of the economy - government, individual but also corporate - the
 U.S. has borrowed heavily to live beyond its means; we have been consuming
 through easy credit what we otherwise would have had to wait to buy. In the
 words of Michael Lewis, "Leverage buys you a glimpse of a prosperity you

 haven't really earned." Asset values are contingent, as Jim Grant once said. But
 debt is forever. Instead of cutting back on leverage and getting our house in
 order, government response to the crisis has been to shift unaffordable debt from
 individual balance sheets onto the national ledger, where every day we owe more
 than ever before. . . .

 I believe it is possible that the average citizen understands our country's fiscal
 situation better than many of our politicians or prominent economists. Most
 people seem to viscerally recognize that the absence of an immediate crisis does
 not mean we will not eventually face one. They are wary of believing promises
 by those who failed to predict previous crises in housing and in highly leveraged
 financial institutions. They regard with skepticism those who don't accept that
 we have a debt problem, or insist that inflation will remain under control.
 (Indeed, they know inflation is not well under control, for they know how far the
 purchasing power of a dollar has dropped when they go to the supermarket or
 service station.) They are pretty sure they are not getting reasonable value from
 the taxes they pay.

 When an economist tells them that growing the nation's debt over the past 12
 years from $6 trillion to $16 trillion is not a problem, and that doubling it again
 will still not be a problem, this simply does not compute. They know the
 trajectory we are on, and that the most successful country in the history of the
 world can go into decline if it becomes arrogant or complacent. When politicians
 claim that this tax increase or that spending cut will generate trillions over the
 next decade, they are properly skeptical over whether anyone can truly know what
 will happen next year, let alone a decade or more from now. They are wary of
 grand bargains that kick in years down the road, knowing that the failure to make
 hard decisions is how we got into today's mess. . . .

 And when you tell the populace that we can all enjoy a free lunch of
 extremely low interest rates, massive Fed purchases of mounting treasury
 issuance, trillions of dollars of expansion in the Fed's balance sheet, and huge
 deficits far into the future, they are highly skeptical not because they know
 precisely what will happen, but because they are sure that no one else - even,
 or perhaps especially, the policymakers - does either.*

* Seth has asked me to point out that his remarks are copyright 2013 The Baupost Group,
dissemination or redistribution is prohibited, whether electronically or in paper form.


Memo: The Race Is On.

I've written a lot of memos to clients over the last 24 years - well over a hundred. One I'm particularly
proud of is The Race to the Bottom from February 2007. I think it provided a timely warning about the
capital market behavior that ultimately led to the mortgage meltdown of 2007 and the crisis of 2008. I
wasn't aware and didn't explicitly predict (in that memo or elsewhere) that the unwise lending practices
that were exemplified in sub-prime mortgages would lead to a global financial crisis of multi-generational
proportions. However, I did detect carelessness-induced behavior, and I considered it worrisome.

As readers of my memos know, I believe strongly that (a) most of the key phenomena in the investment
world are inherently cyclical, (b) these cycles repeat, reflecting consistent patterns of behavior, and (c) the
results of that behavior are predictable.

Of all the cycles I write about, I feel the capital market cycle is among the most volatile, prone to some of
the greatest extremes. It is also one of the most impactful for investors. In short, sometimes the credit
window is open to anyone in search of capital (meaning dumb deals get done), and sometimes it
slams shut (meaning even deserving companies can't raise money). This memo is about the cycle's
first half: the manic swing toward accommodativeness.

An aside: I recently engaged in an exchange with a reader who took issue with my use of the word
"cycle." In his view, something is a cycle only if it's so regular that the timing and extent of its ups and
downs can be predicted with certainty. The cycles I describe aren't predictable as to timing or extent.
However, their fluctuations absolutely can be counted on to recur, and that's what matters to me. I think
it's also what Mark Twain had in mind when he said "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme."
The details don't repeat, but the rhyming patterns are extremely reliable.

Competing to Provide Capital

When the economy is doing well and companies' profits are rising, people become increasingly
comfortable making loans and investing in equity. As the environment becomes more salutary, lenders
and investors enjoy gains. This makes them want to do more; gives them the capital to do it with; and
makes them more aggressive. Since this happens to all of them at the same time, the competition to lend
and invest becomes increasingly heated.

When investors and lenders want to make investments in greater quantity, I think it's also inescapable that
they become willing to accept lower quality. They don't just provide more money on the same old terms;
they also become willing - even eager - to do so on weaker terms. In fact, one way they strive to win
the opportunity to put money to work is by doing increasingly dangerous things.

This behavior was the subject of The Race to the Bottom. In it I said to buy a painting in an auction, you
have to be willing to pay the highest price. To buy a company, a share of stock or a building - or to make
a loan - you also have to pay the highest price. And when the competition is heated, the bidding goes
higher. This doesn't always - or exclusively - result in a higher explicit price; for example, bonds rarely
come to market at prices above par. Instead, paying the highest price may take the form of accepting

a higher valuation parameter (e.g., a higher price/earnings ratio for a stock or a higher multiple of
EBITDA for a buyout) or accepting a lower return (e.g., a lower yield for a bond or a lower
capitalization rate for an office building).

Further, rather than paying more for the asset purchased, there are other ways for an investor or lender
to get less for his money. This can come through tolerating a weaker deal structure or through an
increase in risk. It's primarily these latter elements - rather than securities merely getting pricier - with
which this memo is concerned.

History Rhymes

In the pre-crisis years, as described in the 2007 memo, the race to the bottom manifested itself in a
number of ways:

 There was widespread acceptance of financial engineering techniques, some newly minted,
 such as derivatives creation, securitization, tranching and selling onward. These innovations
 resulted in the creation of such things as highly levered mortgage-backed securities, CDOs and
 CLOs (structured credit instruments offering tiered debt levels of varying riskiness); credit default
 swaps (enabling investors to place bets regarding the creditworthiness of debtors); and SPACs
 (Special Purpose Acquisition Companies, or blind-pool acquisition vehicles). Further, the
 development of derivatives, in particular, vastly increased the ease with which risk could be
 shouldered (often without a complete understanding) as well as the amount of risk that could be
 garnered per dollar of capital committed.

 While not a novel development, there was an enormous upsurge in buyouts. These included
 the biggest deals ever; higher enterprise values as a multiple of cash flow; increased leverage
 ratios; and riskier, more cyclical target companies, such as semiconductor manufacturers.

 There was widespread structural deterioration. Examples included covenant-lite loans
 carrying few or none of the protective terms prudent lenders look for, and PIK-toggle debt on
 which the obligors could elect to pay interest "in kind" with additional securities rather than cash.

 Finally, there was simply a willingness to buy riskier securities. Examples here included large
 quantities of CCC-rated debt, as well as debt issued to finance dividend payments and stock
 buybacks. The last two increase a company's leverage without adding any productive assets that
 can help service the new debt.

Toward the end, my 2007 memo included the following paragraph:

 Today's financial market conditions are easily summed up: There's a global glut of
 liquidity, minimal interest in traditional investments, little apparent concern about
 risk, and skimpy prospective returns everywhere. Thus, as the price for accessing
 returns that are potentially adequate (but lower than those promised in the past),
 investors are readily accepting significant risk in the form of heightened leverage,
 untested derivatives and weak deal structures. The current cycle isn't unusual in its
 form, only its extent. There's little mystery about the ultimate outcome, in my opinion,
 but at this point in the cycle it's the optimists who look best. (emphasis in the original)

Now we're seeing another upswing in risky behavior. It began surprisingly soon after the crisis (see
Warning Flags, May 2010), spurred on by central bank policies that depressed the return on safe
investments. It has gathered steam ever since, but not to anywhere near the same degree as in

 Wall Street has, thus far, been less creative in terms of financial engineering innovations. I can't
 think of a single new "modern miracle" that's been popularized since the crisis.

 Likewise, derivatives are off the front page and seem to be created at a much slower pace. A full
 resumption of derivatives creation and other forms of financial innovation appears to be on hold
 pending clarification of the regulatory uncertainty surrounding acceptable activity for banks.

 Buyout activity seems relatively subdued. In 2006-07, it seemed a buyout in the tens of billions
 was being announced every week; now they're quite scarce. Many smaller deals are taking place,
 however, including a large number of "flips" from one buyout fund to another, and leverage
 ratios have moved back up toward the highs of the last cycle.

 "Cov-lite" and PIK-toggle debt issuance is in full flower, as are triple-Cs, dividend recaps and
 stock buybacks.

It's highly informative to assess how the other characteristics of 2007 enumerated above compare with
conditions today:

 global glut of liquidity - check
 minimal interest in traditional investments - check (relatively little is expected today from
 Treasurys, high grade bonds or equities, encouraging investors to shift toward alternatives)
 little apparent concern about risk - check
 skimpy prospective returns everywhere - check

Risk tolerance and leverage haven't returned to their pre-crisis highs in quantitative terms, but there's no
doubt in my mind that risk bearing is back in vogue.

Examples from the Media

My preparation for writing these memos often includes amassing media citations around a central theme.
Here are some from the last few weeks:

 Now, eight years since the PIK-toggle entered the market, companies are again using the
 esoteric structures, along with a host of riskier borrowing practices associated with the
 buyout boom that helped inflate the 2006-07 credit bubble. (Financial Times, October

 At the same time, more than $200bn of "cov-lite" loans have been sold so far this year,
 eclipsing the $100bn issued in 2007. That means 56 per cent of new leveraged loans now
 come with fewer protections for lenders than normal loans. (Ibid.)

 Bankers say much of that issuance has been a result of the return of another pre-crisis
 market vehicle - the collateralised [sic] loan obligation. . . . Like the rest of the leveraged

 loan market, CLOs have enjoyed buoyant demand. At least $55.41bn of the vehicles
 have been sold this year - the highest amount since the $88.94bn issued in 2007. (Ibid.)

 Bonds rated CCC or lower -- at least eight steps below investment grade -- by S&P have
 gained 11 percent this year, compared with about a 6 percent gain for all dollar-
 denominated junk bonds or a loss of more than 1 percent for investment-grade debt,
 according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. (Bloomberg, November 19)

 . . . the amount of indebtedness in leveraged buyout deals is creeping up. The average
 amount of debt used to finance LBOs has jumped from a low of 3.69 times earnings in
 2009 to an average of 5.37 so far this year, according to data from S&P Capital IQ. At the
 height of the LBO boom, average leverage was 6.05. (Financial Times, October 22)

 Subprime loans, given to people with little proven ability to pay, are making a comeback, this
 time to buy cars. Issuance of bonds linked to loans for the shakiest borrowers hit $17.2 billion this
 year, more than double the amount sold during the same period in 2010, according to Harris
 Trifon, a debt analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. (Bloomberg, November 19)

 A Goldman Sachs index of [the stocks of] companies with weaker balance sheets has rallied 42
 percent this year, almost doubling the gain in a measure of more creditworthy firms. (Ibid.)

 Twitter took the first steps in the pricing of its eagerly awaited initial public offering. . . .
 The social media darling disclosed that it planned to sell 70 million shares at $17 to $20
 each. At the midpoint of that range, the offering would raise about $1.3 billion and
 would value Twitter at about $10 billion, excluding options. . . . Such a valuation would
 make Twitter more than three times as big as one of the first big Internet giants, AOL . . .
 (The New York Times Dealbook, October 24)

 Twitter is feeling more optimistic about investor appetite for its imminent initial public offering.
 On Monday morning, the company raised the price range for its I.P.O. to $23 to $25, signaling a
 bullish outlook ahead of its trading debut this week. The new range increases Twitter's potential
 market value by several billion dollars. If it prices at the high end, Twitter would be valued at
 $13.9 billion at the start of its first day of trading. (Dealbook, November 4)

 [Twitter] priced its shares at $26 on Wednesday night, giving it a market value of $18.1 billion.
 On Thursday, Twitter closed at $44.90 a share, 73 percent above its initial public offering price.
 (Dealbook, November 7)

 In a sign of the fervor once again rising around Internet startups, the 23-year-old CEO of
 [Snapchat] a two-year-old company with no revenue has rejected a $3 billion buyout offer. (The
 Wall Street Journal, November 14)

 Cash is returning to emerging markets, sparking big stock rallies and a surge in
 fundraising . . . Yield-hungry investors are venturing far into risky territory. Investors
 snapped up $1.8 billion worth of stock sold by Chinese banks in Hong Kong over the past
 two weeks, while India's stock market has climbed to record highs. Brazil sold $3.25
 billion of debt, its biggest dollar-denominated offering on record, and Pakistan said
 Monday it plans to sell debt overseas for the first time in six years. (The Wall Street
 Journal, November 7)

 Emerging markets IPOs creep back into London; Emerging market companies are staging a
 return on the London Stock Exchange after a few quiet years. (Financial News, November 5)

Perhaps most tellingly, the November 19 Bloomberg story referenced above included the following
observation from a strategist whom I'll allow to go nameless: "The analysis at some point shifts from
fundamentals to being purely based on the price action of the stock." When people start to posit that
fundamentals don't matter and momentum will carry the day, it's an omen we must heed.

While the extent is nowhere as dramatic as in 2006-07 - and the psychology behind it isn't close to
being as bullish or risk-blind - I certainly sense a significant increase in the acceptance of risk. The
bottom line is that when risk aversion declines and the pursuit of return gathers steam, issuers can
do things in the capital markets that are impossible in more prudent times.

Why Is Risk Bearing on the Rise, and What Are the Implications?

To set the scene for answering the above questions, I'm going to reiterate and pull together some
observations from recent memos.

Psychologically and attitudinally, I don't think the current capital market atmosphere bears much of a
resemblance to that of 2006-07. Then I used words like "optimistic," "ebullient" and "risk-oblivious" to
describe the players. Returns on risky assets were running high, and a number of factors were cited as
having eliminated risk:

 The Fed was considered capable of restoring growth come what may.
 A global "wall of liquidity" was coming toward us, derived from China's and the oil producers'
 excess reserves; it could be counted on to keep asset prices aloft.
 The Wall Street miracles of securitization, tranching, selling onward and derivatives creation had
 "sliced and diced" risk so finely - and directed it where it could most readily be borne - that risk
 really didn't require much thought.

In short, in those days, most people couldn't imagine a way to lose money.

I believe most strongly that the riskiest thing in the investment world is the belief that there's no
risk. When that kind of sentiment prevails, investors will engage in otherwise-risky behavior. By doing
so, they make the world a risky place. And that's what happened in those pre-crisis years. When The
New York Times asked a dozen people for articles about the cause of the crisis, I wrote one titled "Too
Much Trust; Too Little Worry." Certainly a dearth of fear and a resulting high degree of risk taking
accurately characterize the pre-crisis environment. But that was then. It's different today.

Today, unlike 2006-07, uncertainty is everywhere:

 Will the rate of economic growth in the U.S. get back to its prior norm? Will unemployment fall
 to the old "structural" level?
 Can America's elected officials possibly reach agreement on long-term solutions to the problems
 of deficits and debt? Or will the national debt expand unchecked?
 Will Europe improve in terms of GDP growth, competitiveness and fiscal governance? Will its
 leaders be able to reconcile the various nations' opposing priorities?
 Can Abenomics transform Japan's economy from lethargy to dynamism? The policies appear on
 paper to be the right ones, but will they work?

 Can China transition from a highly stimulated economy based on easy money, an excess of fixed
 investment and an overactive non-bank financial system, without producing a hard landing that
 keeps it from reaching its economic goals?
 Can the emerging market economies prosper if demand from China and the developed world
 expands more slowly than in the past?

Looking at the world more thematically, a lot of questions surround the ability to manage economies and
regulate growth:

 Can low interest rates and high levels of money creation return economic growth rates to previous
 levels? (To date, the evidence is mixed.)
 Can inflation be returned to a salutary level somewhat above that of today? Right now,
 insufficient inflation is the subject of complaints almost everywhere. Can the desired inflation
 rate be reinstated without going beyond, to undesirable levels?
 Programs like Quantitative Easing are novel inventions. How much do we know about how to
 end them, and about what the effects of doing so will be? Will it prove possible to wind down the
 stimulus - the word du jour is "taper" - without jeopardizing today's unsteady, non-dynamic
 recoveries? Can the central banks back off from interest rate suppression, bond buying and easy
 money policies without causing interest rates to rise enough to choke off growth?
 How will governments reconcile the opposing goals of stimulating growth (lower taxes, increased
 spending) and reining in deficits (increased taxes, less spending)?
 Will prosperous regions (e.g., Germany) continue to be willing to subsidize profligate and poorer
 ones (e.g., Spain and Portugal)?

As to investments:

 When the Fed stops buying bonds, will interest rates rise a little or a lot? Does that mean bonds
 are unattractive?
 Are U.S. stocks still attractive after having risen strongly over the last 18 months?
 Ditto for real estate following its post-crash recovery?
 Can private equity funds buy companies at attractive prices in an environment where few owners
 are motivated to sell?

As I've said before, most people are aware of these uncertainties. Unlike the smugness, complacency and
obliviousness of the pre-crisis years, today few people are as confident as they used to be about their
ability to predict the future, or as certain that it will be rosy. Nevertheless, many investors are
accepting (or maybe pursuing) increased risk.

The reason, of course, is that they feel they have to. The actions of the central banks to lower interest
rates to stimulate economies have made this a low-return world. This has caused investors to move out
on the risk curve in pursuit of the returns they want or need. Investors who used to get 6% from
Treasurys have turned to high yield bonds for such a return, and so forth.

Movement up the risk curve brings cash inflows to riskier markets. Those cash inflows increase demand,
cause prices to rise, enhance short-term returns, and contribute to the pro-risk behavior described above.
Through this process, the race to the bottom is renewed.

In short, it's my belief that when investors take on added risks - whether because of increased
optimism or because they're coerced to do so (as now) - they often forget to apply the caution they

should. That's bad for them. But if we're not cognizant of the implications, it can also be bad for
the rest of us.

Where does investment risk come from? Not, in my view, primarily from companies, securities - pieces
of paper - or institutions such as exchanges. No, in my view the greatest risk comes from prices that are
too high relative to fundamentals. And how do prices get too high? Mainly because the actions of market
participants take them there.

Among the many pendulums that swing in the investments world - such as between fear and greed, and
between depression and euphoria - one of the most important is the swing between risk aversion and risk
tolerance.

Risk aversion is the essential element in sane markets. People are supposed to prefer safety over
uncertainty, all other things being equal. When investors are sufficiently risk averse, they'll (a) approach
risky investments with caution and skepticism, (b) perform thorough due diligence, incorporating
conservative assumptions, and (c) demand healthy incremental return as compensation for accepting
incremental risk. This sort of behavior makes the market a relatively safe place.

But when investors drop their risk aversion and become risk-tolerant instead, they turn bold and trusting,
fail to do as much due diligence, base their analysis on aggressive assumptions, and forget to demand
adequate risk premiums as a reward for bearing increased risk. The result is a more dangerous world
where asset prices are higher, prospective returns are lower, risk is elevated, the quality and safety
of new issues deteriorates, and the premium for bearing risk is insufficient.

It's one of my first principles that we never know where we're going - given the unreliability of macro
forecasting - but we ought to know where we are. "Where we are" means what the temperature of the
market is: Are investors risk-averse or risk-tolerant? Are they behaving cautiously or aggressively? And
thus is the market a safe place or a risky one?

Certainly risk tolerance has been increasing of late; high returns on risky assets have encouraged
more of the same; and the markets are becoming more heated. The bottom line varies from sector
to sector, but I have no doubt that markets are riskier than at any other time since the depths of the
crisis in late 2008 (for credit) or early 2009 (for equities), and they are becoming more so.

Is This a Sell Signal? If Not, Then What?

No, I don't think it's time to bail out of the markets. Prices and valuation parameters are higher than they
were a few years ago, and riskier behavior is observed. But what matters is the degree, and I don't think
it has reached the danger zone yet.

First, as mentioned above, the absolute quantum of risk doesn't seem as high as in 2006-07. The modern
miracles of finance aren't seen as often (or touted as highly), and the use of leverage isn't as high.

Second, prices and valuations aren't highly extended (the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 is around 16, the post-
war average, while in 2000 it was in the low 30s: now that's extended).

A rise in risk tolerance is something that should get your attention and focus your concentration.
But for it to be highly worrisome, it has to be accompanied by extended valuations. I don't think we're
there yet. I think most asset classes are priced fully - in many cases on the high side of fair - but not
at bubble-type highs. Of course the exception is bonds in general, which the central banks are

supporting at yields near all-time lows, meaning prices near all-time highs. But I don't find them scary
(unless their duration is long), since - if the issuers prove to be money-good - they'll eventually pay off at
par, erasing the interim mark-downs that will come when interest rates rise.

 * * *

In the 1950s, when I was a kid, I watched old movies on TV when I got home from school. One from the
1940s was called It Happened Tomorrow. In it, a struggling young journalist made a deal with the devil
to be given a peek at the next day's news. His scoops brought him huge success, and everything ran
smoothly until he received a newspaper headlined "Reporter Shot Dead at Racetrack." He tried all he
could to avoid it, but as a result of some very clever plot devices, he of course ended up at the track
(where he learned that the headline had resulted from a case of mistaken identity).

I go through all of the above to explain that - try as I might to avoid it - my memos on excessive risk
bearing and what to do about it invariably end up back at the same place: my favorite Buffettism:

 . . . the less the prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence
 with which we should conduct our own affairs.

I repeat Warren's injunction for the simple reason that you just can't put it any better. When
others are acting imprudently, making the world a riskier place, our caution level should rise in
response. (It's equally true that when others become overly cautious and run from risk, assets get so
cheap that we should turn aggressive.)

Over the last 2-3 years, my motto for Oaktree has been consistent: "move forward, but with
caution." I feel the outlook is not so bad, and asset prices are not so high, that it's time to apply
maximum caution (or, as they said in The Godfather, "go to the mattresses"). But by the same token, the
outlook is not so good, and asset prices are not so low, that we should be aggressive. That's the reason
for my middling stance.

Having said that, however, there's no doubt in my mind that the trend is in the direction of increased risk,
and I see no reason to think that trend will be arrested anytime soon. Risk is likely to reach extreme
levels someday - it always does, eventually - and great caution will be called for. Just not yet.

Here's my conclusion from The Race to the Bottom. I'll let it stand - another case of "ditto."

 . . . there's a race to the bottom going on, reflecting a widespread reduction in the level of
 prudence on the part of investors and capital providers. No one can prove at this point
 that those who participate will be punished, or that their long-run performance won't
 exceed that of the naysayers. But that is the usual pattern.