Memo: Getting Lucky.

Sometimes these memos are inspired by a single event or just one thing I read. This one - like my first
memo 24 years ago - grew out of the juxtaposition of two observations. I'll introduce one here and the
other on page seven. Contrary to my wife Nancy's observation that my memos are "all the same," the
subject here is one I've rarely touched on.

The Role of Luck

The first inspiration for this memo came in early November, when I picked up a copy of the Four Seasons
Magazine in my hotel room in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. I happened to turn to an article entitled "In Defence
of Luck" by Ed Smith. It's been in my Oaktree bag ever since. In his two opening paragraphs, Smith
presents a thesis for dismantling:

 "Success is never accidental," Twitter founder Jack Dorsey recently tweeted. No
 accidents, just planning; no luck, only strategy; no randomness, just perfect logic.

 It is a tempting executive summary for a seductive speech or article. If there are no
 accidents, then winners are seen in an even better light. Denying the existence of luck
 appeals to a fundamental human urge: to understand, and ultimately control, everything
 in our path. Hence the popularity of the statement "You make your own luck."

That's all it took to get my juices flowing. I - along with Smith - believe a great many things
contribute to success. Some are our own doing, while many others are beyond our control. There's
no doubt that hard work, planning and persistence are essential for repeated success. These are among the
contributors that Twitter's Dorsey is talking about. But even the hardest workers and best decision
makers among us will fail to succeed consistently without luck.

What are the components of luck? They range from accidents of birth and genetics, to chance meetings
and fortuitous choices, and even to perhaps-random but certainly unforeseeable events that cause
decisions to turn out right.

In discussing the existence and importance of luck, Smith cites the popular book Outliers by Malcolm
Gladwell:

 Attacking luck has never been more fashionable. No matter how flimsy the science
 behind the theory, popularized by author Malcolm Gladwell, that success must follow
 from 10,000 hours of dedicated practice, it has hardened into folklore.

Outliers is best known for Gladwell's observation that it's this magic number of hours of practice that
makes the difference for those who are most successful. But that's only part of Gladwell's message, and
people who think his book is all about hard work and practice miss the point. Having set out the "10,000-
hours" thesis, Gladwell largely stops talking about it and turns to spend much more time on something he
calls "demographic luck." This is actually the antithesis of an insistence that hours of effort suffice.

Demographic Luck

Gladwell's term for this key ingredient in success has a simpler everyday label: "being born at the right
time and the right place." Gladwell's examples are compelling:

 By the time the first hockey tryouts take place for all the little Canadian boys born in a given
 calendar year, those born in January will be eleven months older - and thus much bigger and
 stronger and more coordinated - than those born in December. They're likely to be put on better
 teams, receive better coaching, and spend more time on the ice. They're more likely to get
 10,000 hours of practice and - all other things equal - to have their skills honed and showcased.

 When I went to college in the mid-sixties, we inputted computer projects via punch cards; they
 ran overnight; and we went back for our results the next morning. But going to a private high
 school a few years later enabled Bill Gates to enter his work via a time-sharing terminal
 connected directly to a central computer, and to see the results in real time. Thus he could
 perform hundreds of iterations a week, not seven, and develop his skills and his ideas much
 faster. In addition, the University of Washington was a short bus ride from his home, and his
 family's contacts enabled him to use its computer lab.

 When Joe Flom and his Jewish cohorts graduated from law school in the 1930s, there were no
 jobs for them with prestigious Wall Street law firms. They formed their own firm, Skadden,
 Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom, but their work was largely confined to matters the "white shoe"
 firms rejected as unseemly and disreputable. Thus when proxy fights and hostile takeovers
 became commonplace in the 1970s and '80s, Joe Flom had superior experience and became a
 leader in advising on them, earning multi-million dollar fees.

It seems like more than a coincidence that not only was Bill Gates born in 1955, but his Microsoft co-
founder Paul Allen was born in 1953; Sun Microsystems founders Bill Joy and Scott McNealy were born
in 1954; Steve Jobs and Eric Schmidt were born in 1955; and Steve Ballmer was born in 1956. Ten years
earlier and there would have been no remote computer terminals for them to work at in high school and
college; ten years later and the kids born before them would have beat them to the "new, new thing."

Likewise, the greatest pioneers of the M&A bar were born at the right time to benefit from the upsurge in
corporate activities that the legal establishment had frowned upon: Joe Flom in 1923 and all four founders
of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen and Katz in 1930-31.

During the holidays, I enjoyed spending time with three legends of the pop music business: producer
David Geffen, entertainment attorney Allen Grubman, and Robbie Robertson, leader of the group "The
Band." I was struck by the fact that they were all born in the same year: 1943. I came along three years
later, and I remember my parents picking me up from summer camp in 1956 and telling me about a new
singing sensation, Elvis Presley, and a new kind of music called rock and roll. The three men listed above
were born at the right time to become leaders of the newly minted rock and roll industry. It's a good
thing they weren't born a few decades later, since cheap downloads and file sharing have now decimated
the profitability of the record business.

The bottom line is simple: it's great to be in the vanguard of a new development. Talent and hard
work are essential, but there's nothing like getting there early and being pushed ahead by the powerful
trends in demographics and taste that follow.

Perhaps the ultimate description of demographic luck comes from Warren Buffett:

 I've had it so good in this world, you know. The odds were fifty-to-one against me being
 born in the United States in 1930. I won the lottery the day I emerged from the womb by
 being in the United States instead of in some other country where my chances would
 have been way different.

 Imagine there are two identical twins in the womb, both equally bright and energetic.
 And the genie says to them, "One of you is going to be born in the United States, and one
 of you is going to be born in Bangladesh. And if you wind up in Bangladesh, you will
 pay no taxes. What percentage of your income would you bid to be the one that is born
 in the United States?" It says something about the fact that society has something to do
 with your fate and not just your innate qualities. The people who say, "I did it all
 myself," and think of themselves as Horatio Alger - believe me, they'd bid more to be in
 the United States than in Bangladesh. That's the Ovarian Lottery. (The Snowball, Alice
 Schroeder)

Buffett is insightful enough to realize - and secure enough to admit - that he isn't solely responsible for
his success. What if he'd been born in Bangladesh instead of the U.S.? Or a woman rather than a man in
1930, having much fewer opportunities? Or in 1830 (when there would be no hedge fund industry for a
century) or 2014 (when there are smart people crawling all over it)? Or to different parents? Or if he'd
missed out on studying under Ben Graham at Columbia? Or if he hadn't partnered with Charlie Munger?

I'm impressed when people credit others - as well as luck - for the essential part they played in their
accomplishments. And I agree 100% with the following sentiment from Smith's article:

 Michael Young, the sociologist who coined the term "meritocracy," described the danger
 of thinking that success must be deserved just because it has happened: "If meritocrats
 believe, as more and more of them are encouraged to, that their advancement comes from
 their own merits . . . they can be insufferably smug." (Emphasis added)

Did You Do It All Yourself?

Buffett's mention of "people who say, 'I did it all myself' " reminds me of one of President Obama's
reelection campaign speeches, which included a comment that became a lightning rod: "If you've got a
business - you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen."

His remark serves quite poorly when taken on its own. It suggests he thinks that there's no such thing as
individual success, only group accomplishments. It denies the efficacy of hard work and grit. In short, it
reflects a very un-American view of success.

It's hard to be sure that every sentence we speak or write can stand on its own. When taken in context,
Obama's statement makes more sense:

 If you were successful, somebody along the line gave you some help. There was a great
 teacher somewhere in your life. Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American
 system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges.
 If you've got a business - you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen.

Clearly Obama omitted a few key words from those two last sentences, perhaps assuming his listeners
would carry them over from those that went before. The addition of just four words (italicized below)
would have made his message more palatable: "If you've got a business - you didn't build that alone.
Somebody else provided assistance that made that happen."

In other words, you were lucky enough to get help. Weren't we all?

Did I Do It All Myself?

You may think of me as intelligent, insightful and/or hard-working. I hope you do. But when I finished
reading Outliers, I was moved to write down for my kids all the ways in which demographic luck
contributed to my success. To illustrate my point, I want to share the list with you:

 First of all, it was great to be born in America at the very beginning of the "baby boom." Baby
 boomers - the generation born right after World War II - benefitted from the return of
 servicemen from the war; the ending of war-time limits on consumption; and explosive
 subsequent growth of the population, which fired strong economic growth. I was conceived
 during the war and born just after it ended. You couldn't get much closer to the front of the line.

 I was born to middle-class parents - members of the first generation in their families to be born in
 America - who encouraged me in education and work. They made me the first member of our
 family to receive a college degree.

 The timing of my birth enabled me to get a good, free education in the New York City public
 schools. The schools benefitted from the presence of smart women teachers to whom corporate
 careers weren't available, and who liked being on the same vacation schedule as their kids.

 My high school guidance counselor said my grades weren't good enough to get me into Wharton,
 but I was lucky to have had an accounting teacher whose letter of recommendation may have
 done the trick. Or perhaps it was the college entrance exams or SATs, standardized tests that had
 been introduced shortly before to counter the elite universities' bias against public-school kids.

 Regardless of what made it possible, it's clear that attending Wharton taught me a lot, exposed
 me to finance (previously I had planned on a career in accounting) and burnished my resume.
 Would my career, and thus my life, have been the same if I hadn't gotten into Wharton and
 instead had attended my second-choice school, a large state university?

 When I went off to college, I'd never heard of something called an MBA. But the existence of
 the Vietnam War provided an incentive to stay in school, and three years for law school seemed
 like too much, so business school it would be. Turned down by Harvard because of my lack of
 work experience, I instead attended the University of Chicago, whose theoretical, quantitative
 approach provided the perfect complement to my pragmatic Wharton undergraduate education.

 Just as I was lucky to be at the front of the line of baby boomers, my timing was fortuitous in
 attending Chicago. I arrived on campus in 1967, just a few years after the new Chicago approach
 to finance had begun to be taught. No more than a few hundred students could have beat me to
 the capital asset pricing model, modern portfolio theory, the efficient market hypothesis, the
 random walk, and the other components of today's investment theory.

 I'm not one of those investors who started reading prospectuses at age ten. In fact, even as I
 approached graduation from Chicago in 1969, I was unsure of my career direction. I accepted a
 permanent position in investment research at First National City Bank (the predecessor of
 Citibank), largely because I'd had a good summer job there a year earlier. Ten years in equity
 analysis there, including three as director of research, provided an ideal foundation for my
 investment career.

 And then, when a new chief investment officer wanted to make room for his own head of
 research in 1978, he asked me to start up funds in convertible bonds and - in the ultimate stroke
 of luck - the newly created field of high yield bonds. How could anyone have been better
 positioned to participate in the financial developments of the last 35 years?

 And of course, I was at my luckiest when I teamed up with my wonderful partners - Bruce Karsh,
 Sheldon Stone, Larry Keele and Richard Masson - between 1983 and 1988. Bruce had the idea
 to organize a fund to invest in "distressed debt" at TCW, the first one from a mainstream financial
 institution. And then the five of us left to start Oaktree in 1995. The rest, as they say, is history.

You make your own luck? Success is never accidental? Bull!! I contributed to some of the positive
developments described above, but many of them were pure luck. Pull out a few of the steps on this
progression, and where would I be today? Here's one more: Of all the jobs I applied for when leaving
Chicago in 1969, I wanted one much more than the rest but didn't get it. A few years ago, the company's
campus recruiter told me I had been chosen, but on the relevant morning the partner in charge came in
hung over and failed to call me with the positive message he was supposed to deliver. Just think: but
for that bit of "bad luck" I could have spent the next 39 years at Lehman Brothers!

I know how lucky I've been. I find it incredibly uplifting and the source of great optimism regarding the
future to know and appreciate my good fortune. Rather than detract from my satisfaction over the success
I've enjoyed - because of having to admit it wasn't all my own doing - this realization makes me feel
fortunate to have been born when and where I was and to have benefitted from the developments that
came along. I revel in my good luck.

And what about the things I may have brought to my career: perhaps intelligence, insight and a talent for
writing? Isn't having these things a form of luck? Intelligent and innately talented people didn't do
anything to earn their gifts. No one can take credit for them as "something I did" or "something that was
within my control." These things, too, are luck, and something for which we should give thanks rather
than take credit.

Luck in Investing

Rather than "you make your own luck," there's an old saying that provides a better way to put it: "luck is
what happens when preparation meets opportunity." If you prepare through study and practice, work hard
and bring your talents to bear, you'll be positioned to make the most out of opportunities that arise. This
way of looking at life is in line with my formulation regarding investment results: performance is what
happens when events collide with an existing portfolio.

We arrange our lives - or, in investing, our portfolios - in expectation of what we think will happen
in the future. In general, we get the desired results if future events conform to our hopes or
expectations, and less-desired results if they don't.

What about people - like those of us at Oaktree - who don't consider themselves macro forecasters or
market timers? Even the most devoted value investor acts on the basis of expectations: that an asset
selling at x will turn out to be worth 2x, and that one of these days everyone else will recognize its value
and bid it up. And the agnostic buy-and-hold equity investor operates under the assumption that the
economy will expand, companies will increase their profits, and stock prices will rise as a result.

Let's say investors reach their conclusions about current intrinsic value or future earnings growth
by applying skillful analysis to accurate data and reasonable assumptions. Let's grant, in short,
that their conclusions are "right" in some abstract sense. It still takes a great deal of luck for their
version of future events to materialize.

Elroy Dimson of the London Business School is responsible for one of the most trenchant
observations: "Risk means more things can happen than will happen." In other words, the future
isn't a predetermined scenario that's sure to unfold, but rather a range of possibilities, any one of which
may happen. Investors formulate opinions as to which of them will happen. Those opinions may be
well-reasoned or dart throws. But even the most rigorously derived view of the future is far from sure to
be right. Many other things may happen instead.

Nassim Nicholas Taleb's views, expressed in Fooled by Randomness, connect up with Dimson's. The
world is an uncertain, even random, place. What "should happen" might be totally clear, meaning we
know what the future should hold. But the things that should happen may not happen - and other things
may happen instead - for any of a variety of reasons, many of them extraneous, unpredictable and even
nonsensical. Those things can be described as random: the result of luck, either good or bad.

The point is that we assemble our portfolios, and future events determine whether our performance
will be rewarded or punished. People whose expectations are borne out generally make money, and
those whose aren't lose. That process sounds very fact-based, meritocratic and luck-free, and thus
dependable. But that's only the case on average and in the longest-term sense.

 Sometimes, even though an investor's projections may be far too optimistic relative to what he
 should have expected - a.k.a. "wrong" - the investor is bailed out by unforeseeable positive
 developments, or even by non-fundamentally based price appreciation. Either way, the stock
 rises and the investor is applauded. I'd say he was "right for the wrong reason" (or "lucky").
 Alternatively, a prudent, skillful investor may formulate a reasonable view of the future, only to
 see the world go off the rails and his investments fail. He might be described as "wrong for the
 wrong reason" (or "unlucky").
 An investor may take an appropriately cautious stance - let's say toward tech stocks in 1997 or
 residential mortgage backed securities in 2005 - only to see an irrationally overpriced market
 become more so, as prices soar for years. He looks terrible, a victim of the old adage that "being
 too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong."
 Further, in a special case of being wrong as to timing although perhaps not fundamentals, an
 investor may take a concentrated position in a laughably underpriced stock, using a huge amount
 of borrowed money. But before the expected appreciation can take place, a market crash brings
 on a margin call, and he's wiped out. As John Maynard Keynes said, "The market can remain
 irrational longer than you can remain solvent."
 Last year marked the passing of Joe Granville, a technical analyst whose warning in 1976 was
 followed by a 26% two-year decline, winning him respect and fame. But his next accurate call
 wouldn't come for 24 years, when he told people to sell tech stocks in 2000. Was it skill back in
 1976, or a lucky call that turned out right when events went his way? Regardless, he became one
 of many in the investment business who get famous for having been "right once in a row."

The first thing I remember learning at Wharton in 1963 was that the correctness of a decision can't be
judged from the outcome. Because of the randomness at work in the world and the unpredictability of the
future, lots of bad decisions lead to good results, and lots of good decisions end in failure.

In other words, for an investor to both be right and make money:

 his view of what will happen in the future - and what should be done about it - has to be
 analytically correct a priori,
 the things he thinks will happen have to actually happen, and
 those things have to happen on schedule.

But in investing, it's hard to know what will happen and impossible to know when it will happen. Many
things influence performance other than (a) investors' hard work and skill and (b) the market's
dependable discounting of information about the future. Luck - randomness, or the occurrence of things
beyond our knowledge and control - plays a huge part in outcomes.

Investment success isn't just a question of whether the investor put together the "right" portfolio,
but also whether it encountered a beneficial environment. Thus being successful requires a
significant degree of luck. No one gets it right every time. (That's why even the best investors
diversify, hedge and/or limit their use of leverage.) But the skillful investor is right more often, over a
long period of time, than an assumption of randomness would permit. We say about such investors, "it
can't be luck."

 * * *

Where Is It Easiest to Get Lucky?

The second inspiration for this memo came from a report entitled Alpha and the Paradox of Skill by
Michael Mauboussin of Credit Suisse. In it he talks about Jim Rutt, the CEO of Network Solutions. As a
young man, Rutt wanted to become a better poker player, and to that end he worked hard to learn the odds
regarding each hand and how to detect "tells" in other players that give away their position.

Here's the part that attracted my attention:

 At that point, an uncle pulled him aside and doled out some advice. "Jim, I wouldn't
 spend my time getting better," he advised, "I'd spend my time finding weak games."

 Success in investing has two aspects. The first is skill, which requires you to be
 technically proficient. Technical skills include the ability to find mispriced securities
 (based on capabilities in modeling, financial statement analysis, competitive strategy
 analysis, and valuation all while sidestepping behavioral biases) and a good framework
 for portfolio construction. The second aspect is the game in which you choose to
 compete. (Emphasis added)

Mauboussin goes on to talk primarily about changes in the relative importance of luck and skill. But for
me, what his words keyed first and foremost were musings about market efficiency and inefficiency.
What they highlighted is that the easiest way to win at poker is by playing in easy games in which other

players make mistakes. Likewise, the easiest way to win at investing is by sticking to inefficient
markets.

Luck and Efficiency

Here's my take on the efficient market hypothesis: Thousands of intelligent, computer-literate, objective,
unemotional, highly motivated and hard-working investors spend a great deal of time searching for
information about assets and analyzing what it means for their value. For this reason, all available
information is incorporated instantaneously in market prices. This causes the market price of every asset
to accurately reflect its intrinsic value, such that an investor in the asset will enjoy a risk-adjusted return
that is fair relative to the return on all other assets: no more and no less. Thus there are no
"inefficiencies," or instances where assets are priced incorrectly so as to provide an "excess return" or a
"free lunch." For this reason, no individuals are able to demonstrate superior investment skill ("alpha").
Even if some people were smart enough to take advantage of pricing errors, the market doesn't present
errors for them to take advantage of. As a result, nobody can beat the market.

I have one main disagreement with the theory as presented above. Whereas the academics say in an
efficient market the price of each asset accurately reflects its intrinsic value, I say the price set by the
consensus does the best job of estimating the asset's intrinsic value. In other words, the academics say
market prices are right, while I say they may be wrong but can't consistently be improved upon (and the
errors taken advantage of) by any individual. A market may not be efficient in the sense that prices are
"right," but it can be efficient in that it swiftly incorporates new information. The resulting prices may
not be equal to the value, but they reflect everyone's best collective thinking at a point in time. The
result is the same: no one can beat the market.

I think of the test for market efficiency as being twofold: if markets are efficient, (a) one market's risk-
adjusted return can't be better or worse than any other market and (b) no investor in the market can
outperform the rest in risk-adjusted terms. In other words, there can't be opportunities for
outperformance . . . either through skill or luck. In an efficient market - as with a Swiss watch (or,
as Taleb would say, in dentistry) - luck plays no part.

Are Markets Efficient? Is the Hypothesis Relevant?

Let me say up front that I have always considered the reasoning behind the efficient market
hypothesis absolutely sound and compelling, and it has greatly influenced my thinking.

In well-followed markets, thousands of people are looking for superior investments and trying to avoid
inferior ones. If they find information indicating something's a bargain, they buy it, driving up the price
and eliminating the potential for an excess return. Likewise, if they find an overpriced asset, they sell it
or short it, driving down the price and lifting its prospective return. I think it makes perfect sense to
expect intelligent market participants to drive out mispricings.

The efficient market hypothesis is compelling . . . as a hypothesis. But is it relevant in the real
world? (As Yogi Berra said, "In theory there is no difference between theory and practice, but in
practice there is.") The answer lies in the fact that no hypothesis is any better than the assumptions on
which it's premised.

I believe many markets are quite efficient. Everyone is aware of them, basically understands them, and
is willing to invest in them. And in general everyone gets the same information at the same time (in fact,

it's one of the SEC's missions to make sure that's the case). I had markets like that in mind in 1978
when, on going into portfolio management, my rule was, "I'll do anything but spend the rest of my life
choosing between Merck and Lilly."

But I also believe some markets are less efficient than others. Not everyone knows about them or
understands them. They may be controversial, making people hesitant to invest. They may appear too
risky for some. They may be hard to invest in, illiquid, or accessible only through locked-up vehicles in
which some people can't or don't want to participate. Some market participants may have better
information than others . . . legally. Thus, in an inefficient market there can be mastery and/or luck,
since market prices are often wrong, enabling some investors to do better than others.

(Time for an aside: the fact that a market is inefficient doesn't mean everyone in it gets rich. It simply
means there are overpricings and underpricings, to profit from or fall victim to. Thus there can be
winners and losers. Even in an inefficient market, not everyone can be above average.)

Ultimately, there's one reason why I think no markets are perfectly efficient. Remember the
assumptions underlying market efficiency: the participants have to be objective and unemotional.
Regardless of the market, few investors pass that test. How many are unemotional enough to resist
buying into a fast-rising bubble, or selling in a crash when the price of an asset appears to be on the way
to zero?

The bottom line for me is that (a) you mustn't ignore the concept of efficiency, and at the same time, (b)
you mustn't accept it as universally true. As I wrote in What's It All About, Alpha (July 2001):

 If we entirely ignore theory, we can make big mistakes. We can fool ourselves into
 thinking it's possible to know more than everyone else and regularly beat heavily
 populated markets. . . . But swallowing theory whole can make us turn the process over
 to a computer and miss out on the contribution skillful individuals can make.

Rather than expect markets to routinely provide a free lunch, I think there should be a
presumption that they're efficient. The burden of proof should be on anyone who thinks a market
provides underpriced investments that no one else is smart enough to detect and pursue. It's safer to be
skeptical of the existence of freebies than to assume unappreciated bargains are rife for the taking.

It's important to note, however, that market efficiency shouldn't be considered something that's
universally applicable, but rather what Bruce Karsh has taught me to call a "rebuttable presumption."
You should start out thinking it's the general rule, but its applicability can be disproved in individual
situations. The possibility of inefficiency shouldn't be ignored.

In the old story on this subject, the professor of finance theory is taking a walk across the campus with
one of his students. The student says, "Look professor: isn't that a $10 bill on the ground?" The
professor answers, "It can't be a $10 bill. If it were, someone would have picked it up by now." The
professor turns and walks away, and the student picks it up and has a beer.

My History with Inefficiency

As mentioned above, I was lucky in 1978 when Citibank asked me to manage a portfolio for the
brokerage house Bache, which wanted to offer a high yield bond mutual fund. This was the first of many
opportunities I've enjoyed for free lunches.

Thirty-five years ago, the high yield bond market was a classic example of market inefficiency.

 It was little known and little researched.
 There was little reported performance history.
 There was no centralized trading and no reported data on prices.
 Few professionals invested in them.
 Most importantly, high yield bonds were viewed as unseemly and investing in them was
 considered improper. I'll never forget Moody's definition of a B-rated bond: "fails to possess the
 characteristics of a desirable investment."
 For this reason, they were banned under most institutions' policies, which limited investment to
 bonds rated "A or better" or "investment grade (triple-B or better)."
 And, of course, they were known by the derogatory term "junk bonds." Like the finance
 professor in the story, most investors turned up their noses and walked away.

The elements listed above caused high yield bonds to be disrespected and shunned, and thus to be
underpriced and offer yields that were too high for the risk involved. How do I know? Because (a)
the yield spread offered as compensation for bearing risk has proved to be excessive, (b) the bonds have
outperformed other forms of fixed income investing over the long term, and (c) Sheldon Stone has been
able to compile a risk-adjusted net return above his benchmarks for the 28 years over which he's managed
our portfolios. High yield bonds have provided the foundation for much of Oaktree's success and many
of its subsequent initiatives.

Ten years later, in 1988, Sheldon and I agreed with Bruce Karsh that we should organize our first
distressed debt fund, and Bruce hired Richard Masson to join him in the task. While the prominence of
Drexel Burnham and Michael Milken had attracted attention to high yield bonds by that time, distressed
debt was still little known and poorly understood. What could be more unseemly and frightening than the
debt of companies that were bankrupt or that appeared overwhelmingly likely to become so? No
mainstream financial institutions invested in distressed debt or offered distressed debt funds, leaving an
open playing field for us. Bruce's aggregate since-inception return of 23% per year before fees (171⁄2%
after) - without the benefit of leverage - certainly suggests that inefficiencies have been present. And the
fact that he has earned that return over 25 years while investing $35 billion says it wasn't luck.

My point here is that these markets - and others that Oaktree entered over the years - have been
inefficient markets. The lack of information, infrastructure, understanding and competition
created many opportunities for us to find bargains, and for our clients in those markets to enjoy
favorable returns with less-than-commensurate risk.

The Durability of Inefficiency

If efficiency should be the going-in presumption, so should "efficientization." That's my term for the
process through which a market becomes more efficient. In short, over time the actions of diligent
investors should have the effect of driving out bargains. If at first bargains exist, their holders will enjoy
superior risk-adjusted returns, other investors will take note, and they'll study them and bid them up
enough to eliminate the bargain element and thus the potential for further excess returns. If the
inefficiency is caused by underdeveloped market infrastructure, you can expect centralized trading, price
reporting, performance data and consultant focus to develop.

It requires a certain degree of malfunction for the market to allow an investor to find a bargain,
buy it on the cheap and enjoy an excess return. But it takes a much greater degree of malfunction

for everyone else to fail to notice that investor's success, fail to emulate his methods, and thus allow
the bargain to persist. Usually a free-lunch counter should be expected to be picked clean.

The Current State of Market Efficiency

Let's compare the current environment for efficiency with that of the past.

 Data on all forms of investing is freely available in vast quantities.
 Every investor has extensive computing power. In contrast, there were essentially no PCs or even
 four-function calculators before 1970, and no laptops before 1980.
 "Hedge fund," "alternative investing," "distressed debt," "high yield bond," "private equity,"
 "mortgage backed security" and "emerging market" are all household words today. Thirty years
 ago they were non-existent, little known or poorly understood. Today, as I say about the impact
 of the browsers on our mobile phones, "everyone knows everything."
 Nowadays few people make moral judgments about investments. There aren't many instances of
 investors turning down an investment just because it's controversial or unseemly. In contrast,
 most will do anything to make a buck.
 There are about 8,000 hedge funds in the world, many of which have wide-open charters and
 pride themselves on being infinitely flexible.

It's hard to prove efficiency or inefficiency. Among other reasons, the academics say it takes many
decades of data to reach a conclusion with "statistical significance," but by the time the requisite number
of years have passed, the environment is likely to have been altered. Regardless, I think we must look at
the changes listed above and accept that the conditions of today are less propitious for inefficiency than
those of the past. In short, it makes sense to accept that most games are no longer as easy as they
used to be, and that as a result free lunches are scarcer. Thus, in general, I think it will be harder
to earn superior risk-adjusted returns in the future, and the margin of superiority will be smaller.

People often ask me about the inefficient markets of tomorrow. Think about it: that's an oxymoron. It's
like asking, "What is there that hasn't been discovered yet?" The markets are greatly changed from
25, 35 or 45 years ago. The bottom line today is that there's little that people don't know about,
understand and embrace.

How, then, do I expect to find inefficiency? My answer is that while few markets demonstrate great
structural inefficiency today, many exhibit a great deal of cyclical inefficiency from time to time. Just
five years ago, there were lots of things people wouldn't touch with a ten-foot pole, and as a result they
offered absurdly high returns. Most of those opportunities are gone today, but I'm sure they'll be back
the next time investors turn tail and run.

Markets will be permanently efficient when investors are permanently objective and unemotional. In
other words, never. Unless that unlikely day comes, skill and luck will both continue to play very
important roles.


Memo: Dare to Be Great II.

In September 2006, I wrote a memo entitled Dare to Be Great, with suggestions on how
institutional investors might approach the goal of achieving superior investment results. I've had
some additional thoughts on the matter since then, meaning it's time to return to it. Since fewer
people were reading my memos in those days, I'm going to start off repeating a bit of its content
and go on from there.

About a year ago, a sovereign wealth fund that's an Oaktree client asked me to speak to their
leadership group on the subject of what makes for a superior investing organization. I welcomed
the opportunity. The first thing you have to do, I told them, is formulate an explicit investing
creed. What do you believe in? What principles will underpin your process? The investing
team and the people who review their performance have to be in agreement on questions like
these:

 Is the efficient market hypothesis relevant? Do efficient markets exist? Is it possible to
 "beat the market"? Which markets? To what extent?
 Will you emphasize risk control or return maximization as the primary route to success
 (or do you think it's possible to achieve both simultaneously)?
 Will you put your faith in macro forecasts and adjust your portfolio based on what they
 say?
 How do you think about risk? Is it volatility or the probability of permanent loss? Can it
 be predicted and quantified a priori? What's the best way to manage it?
 How reliably do you believe a disciplined process will produce the desired results? That
 is, how do you view the question of determinism versus randomness?
 Most importantly for the purposes of this memo, how will you define success, and
 what risks will you take to achieve it? In short, in trying to be right, are you willing
 to bear the inescapable risk of being wrong?

Passive investors, benchmark huggers and herd followers have a high probability of achieving
average performance and little risk of falling far short. But in exchange for safety from being
much below average, they surrender their chance of being much above average. All investors
have to decide whether that's okay. And, if not, what they'll do about it.

The more I think about it, the more angles I see in the title Dare to Be Great. Who wouldn't
dare to be great? No one. Everyone would love to have outstanding performance. The real
question is whether you dare to do the things that are necessary in order to be great. Are
you willing to be different, and are you willing to be wrong? In order to have a chance at
great results, you have to be open to being both.

Dare to Be Different

Here's a line from Dare to Be Great: "This just in: you can't take the same actions as
everyone else and expect to outperform." Simple, but still appropriate.

For years I've posed the following riddle: Suppose I hire you as a portfolio manager and we
agree you will get no compensation next year if your return is in the bottom nine deciles of the
investor universe but $10 million if you're in the top decile. What's the first thing you have to
do - the absolute prerequisite - in order to have a chance at the big money? No one has
ever answered it right.

The answer may not be obvious, but it's imperative: you have to assemble a portfolio that's
different from those held by most other investors. If your portfolio looks like everyone else's,
you may do well, or you may do poorly, but you can't do different. And being different is
absolutely essential if you want a chance at being superior. In order to get into the top of the
performance distribution, you have to escape from the crowd. There are many ways to try. They
include being active in unusual market niches; buying things others haven't found, don't like or
consider too risky to touch; avoiding market darlings that the crowd thinks can't lose; engaging
in contrarian cycle timing; and concentrating heavily in a small number of things you think will
deliver exceptional performance.

Dare to Be Great included the two-by-two matrix and paragraph below. Several people told me
the matrix was helpful.
 Conventional Unconventional
 Behavior Behavior
 Favorable Average good results Above-average results
 Outcomes
 Unfavorable Average bad results Below-average results
 Outcomes

 Of course it's not that easy and clear-cut, but I think that's the general situation.
 If your behavior and that of your managers is conventional, you're likely to get
 conventional results - either good or bad. Only if your behavior is
 unconventional is your performance likely to be unconventional . . . and only
 if your judgments are superior is your performance likely to be above
 average.

For those who define investment success as being "average or better," three of the four cells of
the matrix represent satisfactory outcomes. But if you define success strictly as being superior,
only one of the four will do, and it requires unconventional behavior. More from the 2006
memo:

 The bottom line on striving for superior performance has a lot to do with daring to
 be great. Especially in terms of asset allocation, "can't lose" usually goes
 hand-in-hand with "can't win." One of the investor's or the committee's first
 and most fundamental decisions has to be on the question of how far out the

 portfolio will venture. How much emphasis should be put on diversifying,
 avoiding risk and ensuring against below-pack performance, and how much
 on sacrificing these things in the hope of doing better?

In the memo I mentioned my favorite fortune cookie: "the cautious seldom err or write great
poetry." Like the title Dare to Be Great, I find the fortune cookie thought-provoking. It can be
taken as urging caution, since it reduces the likelihood of error. Or it can be taken as saying you
should avoid caution, since it can keep you from doing great things. Or both. No right or wrong
answer, but a choice . . . and hopefully a conscious one.

It Isn't Easy Being Different

In the 2006 memo, I borrowed two quotes from Pioneering Portfolio Management by David
Swensen of Yale. They're my absolute favorites on the subject of institutional behavior. Here's
the first:

 Establishing and maintaining an unconventional investment profile requires
 acceptance of uncomfortably idiosyncratic portfolios, which frequently appear
 downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom.

"Uncomfortably idiosyncratic" is a terrific phrase. There's a great deal of wisdom in those two
words. What's idiosyncratic is rarely comfortable . . . and in order for something to be
comfortable, it usually has to be conventional. The road to above average performance runs
through unconventional, uncomfortable investing. Here's how I put it in 2006:

 Non-consensus ideas have to be lonely. By definition, non-consensus ideas that
 are popular, widely held or intuitively obvious are an oxymoron. Thus such
 ideas are uncomfortable; non-conformists don't enjoy the warmth that comes with
 being at the center of the herd. Further, unconventional ideas often appear
 imprudent. The popular definition of "prudent" - especially in the investment
 world - is often twisted into "what everyone does."

Most great investments begin in discomfort. The things most people feel good about -
investments where the underlying premise is widely accepted, the recent performance has been
positive and the outlook is rosy - are unlikely to be available at bargain prices. Rather, bargains
are usually found among things that are controversial, that people are pessimistic about, and that
have been performing badly of late.

But it isn't easy to do things that entail discomfort. It's no coincidence that distressed debt has
been the source of many successful investments for Oaktree; there's no such thing as a distressed
company that everyone reveres. In 1988, when Bruce Karsh and I organized our first fund to
invest in the debt of companies seemingly at death's door, the very idea made it hard to raise
money, and investing required conviction - on the clients' part and our own - that our analysis
and approach would mitigate the risk. The same discomfort, however, is what caused distressed
debt to be priced cheaper than it should have been, and thus the returns to be consistently high.

Dare to Be Wrong

"You have to give yourself a chance to fail." That's what Kenny "The Jet" Smith said on TV
the other night during the NCAA college basketball tournament, talking about a star player who
started out cold and as a result attempted too few shots in a game his team lost. It's a great way
to make the point. Failure isn't anyone's goal, of course, but rather an inescapable potential
consequence of trying to do really well.

Any attempt to compile superior investment results has to entail acceptance of the possibility of
being wrong. The matrix on page two shows that since conventional behavior is sure to produce
average performance, people who want to be above average can't expect to get there by engaging
in conventional behavior. Their behavior has to be different. And in the course of trying to be
different and better, they have to bear the risk of being different and worse. That truth is
simply unarguable. There is no way to strive for the former that doesn't require bearing the risk
of the latter.

The truth is, almost everything about superior investing is a two-edged sword:

 If you invest, you will lose money if the market declines.
 If you don't invest, you will miss out on gains if the market rises.

 Market timing will add value if it can be done right.
 Buy-and-hold will produce better results if timing can't be done right.

 Aggressiveness will help when the market rises but hurt when it falls.
 Defensiveness will help when the market falls but hurt when it rises.

 If you concentrate your portfolio, your mistakes will kill you.
 If you diversify, the payoff from your successes will be diminished.

 If you employ leverage, your successes will be magnified.
 If you employ leverage, your mistakes will be magnified.

Each of these pairings indicates symmetry. None of the tactics listed will add value if it's right
but not subtract if it's wrong. Thus none of these tactics, in and of itself, can hold the secret to
dependably above average investment performance.

There's only one thing in the investment world that isn't two-edged, and that's "alpha": superior
insight or skill. Skill can help in both up markets and down markets. And by making it more
likely that your decisions are right, superior skill can increase the expected benefit from
concentration and leverage. But that kind of superior skill by definition is rare and elusive.

The goal in investing is asymmetry: to expose yourself to return in a way that doesn't
expose you commensurately to risk, and to participate in gains when the market rises to a
greater extent than you participate in losses when it falls. But that doesn't mean the
avoidance of all losses is a reasonable objective. Take another look at the goal of asymmetry set

out above: it talks about achieving a preponderance of gain over loss, not avoiding all
chance of loss.

To succeed at any activity involving the pursuit of gain, we have to be able to withstand the
possibility of loss. A goal of avoiding all losses can render success unachievable almost as
readily as can the occurrence of too many losses. Here are three examples of "loss prevention
strategies" that can lead to failure:

 I play tennis. But if when I start a match I promise myself that I won't commit a single
 double fault, I'll never be able to put enough "mustard" on my second serve to keep it
 from being easy for my opponent to put away.

 Likewise, coming out ahead at poker requires that I win a lot on my winning hands and
 lose less on my losers. But insisting that I'll never play anything but "the nuts" - the
 hand that can't possibly be beat - will keep me from playing lots of hands that have a
 good chance to win but aren't sure things.

 For a real-life example, Oaktree has always emphasized default avoidance as the route to
 outperformance in high yield bonds. Thus our default rate has consistently averaged just
 1/3 of the universe default rate, and our risk-adjusted return has beaten the indices. But if
 we had insisted on - and designed compensation to demand - zero defaults, I'm sure we
 would have been too risk averse and our performance wouldn't have been as good. As
 my partner Sheldon Stone puts it, "If you don't have any defaults, you're taking too little
 risk."

When I first went to work at Citibank in 1968, they had a slogan that "scared money never
wins." It's important to play judiciously, to have more successes than failures, and to make
more on your successes than you lose on your failures. But it's crippling to have to avoid
all failures, and insisting on doing so can't be a winning strategy. It may guarantee you
against losses, but it's likely to guarantee you against gains as well. Here's some helpful
wisdom on the subject from Wayne Gretzky, considered by many to be the greatest hockey
player who ever lived: "You miss 100% of the shots you don't take."

There is no formulaic approach to investing that can be depended on to produce superior risk-
adjusted returns. There can't be. In a relatively fair or "efficient" market - and the concerted
efforts of investors to find underpriced assets tend to make most markets quite fair - asymmetry
is reduced, and a formula that everyone can access can't possibly work.

As John Kenneth Galbraith said, "There is nothing reliable to be learned about making
money. If there were, study would be intense and everyone with a positive IQ would be rich." If
merely applying a formula that's available to everyone could be counted on to provide easy
profits, where would those profits come from? Who would be the losers in those transactions?
Why wouldn't those people study and apply the formula also?

Or as Charlie Munger told me, "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is
stupid." In other words, anyone who thinks it can be easy to succeed at investing is being
simplistic and superficial, and ignoring investing's complex and competitive nature.

Why should superior profits be available to the novice, the untutored or the lazy? Why should
people be able to make above average returns without hard work and above average skill, and
without knowing something most others don't know? And yet many individuals invest based on
the belief that they can. (If they didn't believe that, wouldn't they index or, at a minimum, turn
over the task to others?)

No, the solution can't lie in rigid tactics, publicly available formulas or loss-eliminating rules . . .
or in complete risk avoidance. Superior investment results can only stem from a better-than-
average ability to figure out when risk-taking will lead to gain and when it will end in loss.
There is no alternative.

Dare to Look Wrong

This is really the bottom-line: not whether you dare to be different or to be wrong, but
whether you dare to look wrong.

Most people understand and accept that in their effort to make correct investment decisions, they
have to accept the risk of making mistakes. Few people expect to find a lot of sure things or
achieve a perfect batting average.

While they accept the intellectual proposition that attempting to be a superior investor has to
entail the risk of loss, many institutional investors - and especially those operating in a political
or public arena - can find it unacceptable to look significantly wrong. Compensation cuts and
even job loss can befall the institutional employee who's associated with too many mistakes.

As Pensions & Investments said on March 17 regarding a big West Coast bond manager
currently in the news, whom I'll leave nameless:

 . . . asset owners are concerned that doing business with the firm could bring
 unwanted attention, possibly creating headline risk and/or job risk for them. . . .

 One [executive] at a large public pension fund said his fund recently allocated
 $100 million for emerging markets, its first allocation to the firm. He said he
 wouldn't do that today, given the current situation, because it could lead to
 second-guessing by his board and the local press.

 "If it doesn't work out, it looks like you don't know what you are doing," he said.

As an aside, let me say I find it perfectly logical that people should feel this way. Most "agents"
- those who invest the money of others - will benefit little from bold decisions that work but will
suffer greatly from bold decisions that fail. The possibility of receiving an "attaboy" for a few

winners can't balance out the risk of being fired after a string of losers. Only someone who's
irrational would conclude that the incentives favor boldness under these circumstances.
Similarly, members of a non-profit organization's investment committee can reasonably
conclude that bearing the risk of embarrassment in front of their peers that accompanies bold but
unsuccessful decisions is unwarranted given their volunteer positions.

I'm convinced that for many institutional investment organizations the operative rule -
intentional or unconscious - is this: "We would never buy so much of something that if it
doesn't work, we'll look bad." For many agents and their organizations, the realities of life
mandate such a rule. But people who follow this rule must understand that by definition it
will keep them from buying enough of something that works for it to make much of a
difference for the better.

In 1936, the economist John Maynard Keynes wrote in The General Theory of Employment,
Interest and Money, "Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for reputation to fail
conventionally than to succeed unconventionally" [italics added]. For people who measure
success in terms of dollars and cents, risk taking can pay off when gains on winners are netted
out against losses on losers. But if reputation or job retention is what counts, losers may be
all that matter, since winners may be incapable of outweighing them. In that case, success
may hinge entirely on the avoidance of unconventional behavior that's unsuccessful.

Often the best way to choose between alternative courses of action is by figuring out which has
the highest "expected value": the total value arrived at by multiplying each possible outcome by
its probability of occurring and summing the results. As I learned from my first textbook at
Wharton fifty years ago (Decisions Under Uncertainty by C. Jackson Grayson, Jr.), if one act has
a higher expected value than another and ". . . if the decision maker is willing to regard the
consequences of each act-event in purely monetary terms, then this would be the logical act to
choose. Keeping in mind, however, that only one event and its consequence will occur (not the
weighted average consequence)," agents may not be able to choose on the basis of expected
value or the weighted average of all possible consequences. If a given action has potential bad
consequences that are absolutely unacceptable, the expected value of all of its consequences
- both good and bad - can be irrelevant.

Given the typical agent's asymmetrical payoff table, the rule for institutional investors
underlined above is far from nonsensical. But if it is adopted, this should be done with
awareness of the likely result: over-diversification. This goes all the way back to the
beginning of this memo, and each organization's need to establish its creed. In this case, the
following questions must be answered:

 In trying to achieve superior investment results, to what extent will we concentrate on
 investments, strategies and managers we think are outstanding? Will we do this despite
 the potential of our decisions to be wrong and bring embarrassment?

 Or will fear of error, embarrassment, criticism and unpleasant headlines make us
 diversify highly, emulate the benchmark portfolio and trade boldness for safety? Will we
 opt for low-cost, low-aspiration passive strategies?

In the course of the presentation described at the beginning of this memo, I pointed out to the
sovereign wealth fund's managers that they had allocated close to a billion dollars to Oaktree's
management over the preceding 15 years. Although that sounds like a lot of money, it actually
amounts to only a few tenths of a percent of what the world guesses their assets to be. And given
our funds' cycle of investing and divesting, that means they didn't have even a few tenths of a
percent of their capital with us at any one time. Thus, despite our good performance, I think it's
safe to say Oaktree couldn't have had a meaningful impact on the fund's overall results.
Certainly one would associate this behavior with an extreme lack of risk tolerance and a high
aversion to headline risk. I urged them to consider whether this reflects their real preference.

Lou Brock of the St. Louis Cardinals was one of baseball's best base stealers between 1966 and
1974. He's the source of a great quote: "Show me a guy who's afraid to look bad, and I'll
show you a guy you can beat every time." What he meant (with apologies to readers who
don't understand baseball) is that in order to prevent a great runner from stealing a base, a pitcher
may have to throw over to the bag ten times in a row to hold him close, rather than pitch to the
batter. But after a few such throws, a pitcher can look like a scaredy-cat and be booed. Pitchers
who were afraid of those things were easy pickings for Lou Brock. Fear of looking bad ensured
their failure.

Looking Right Can Be Harder Than Being Right

Fear of looking bad can be particularly debilitating to an investor, client or manager. This is
because of how hard it is to consistently make correct investment decisions. Some of this comes
from my last memo, on the role of luck.

 First, it's hard to consistently make decisions that correctly factor in all of the relevant
 facts and considerations (i.e., it's hard to be right).

 Second, it's far from certain that even "right" decisions will be successful, since every
 decision requires assumptions about what the future will look like, and even reasonable
 assumptions can be thwarted by the world's randomness. Thus many correct decisions
 will result in failure (i.e., it's hard to look right).

 Third, even well-founded decisions that eventually turn out to be right are unlikely to do
 so promptly. This is because not only are future events uncertain, their timing is
 particularly variable (i.e., it's impossible to look right on time).

This brings me to one of my three favorite adages: "Being too far ahead of your time is
indistinguishable from being wrong." The fact that something's cheap doesn't mean it's going
to appreciate tomorrow; it can languish in the bargain basement. And the fact that something's
overpriced certainly doesn't mean it'll fall right away; bull markets can go on for years. As Lord
Keynes observed, "the market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent."

Alan Greenspan warned of "irrational exuberance" in December 1996, but the stock market
continued upward for more than three years. A brilliant manager I know who turned bearish
around the same time had to wait until 2000 to be proved correct . . . during which time his
investors withdrew much of their capital. He wasn't "wrong," just early. But that didn't make
his experience any less painful.

Likewise, John Paulson made the most profitable trade in history by shorting mortgage securities
in 2006. Many others entered into the same transactions, but too early. When the bets failed to
work at first, the appearance of being on the wrong track ate into the investors' ability to stick
with their decision, and they were forced to close out positions that would have been extremely
profitable.

In order to be a superior investor, you need the strength to diverge from the herd, stand by your
convictions, and maintain positions until events prove them right. Investors operating under
harsh scrutiny and unstable working conditions can have a harder time doing this than others.

That brings me to the second quote I promised from Yale's David Swensen:

 . . . active management strategies demand uninstitutional behavior from
 institutions, creating a paradox that few can unravel.

Charlie Munger was right about it not being easy. I'm convinced that everything that's
important in investing is counterintuitive, and everything that's obvious is wrong. Staying
with counterintuitive, idiosyncratic positions can be extremely difficult for anyone, especially if
they look wrong at first. So-called "institutional considerations" can make it doubly hard.

Investors who aspire to superior performance have to live with this reality. Unconventional
behavior is the only road to superior investment results, but it isn't for everyone. In
addition to superior skill, successful investing requires the ability to look wrong for a while
and survive some mistakes. Thus each person has to assess whether he's temperamentally
equipped to do these things and whether his circumstances - in terms of employers, clients and
the impact of other people's opinions - will allow it . . . when the chips are down and the early
going makes him look wrong, as it invariably will. Not everyone can answer these questions in
the affirmative. It's those who believe they can that should take a chance on being great.


Memo: Risk Revisited.

In April I had good results with Dare to Be Great II, starting from the base established in an earlier memo
(Dare to Be Great, September 2006) and adding new thoughts that had occurred to me in the intervening
years. Also in 2006 I wrote Risk, my first memo devoted entirely to this key subject. My thinking
continued to develop, causing me to dedicate three chapters to risk among the twenty in my book The
Most Important Thing. This memo adds to what I've previously written on the topic.

What Risk Really Means

In the 2006 memo and in the book, I argued against the purported identity between volatility and risk.
Volatility is the academic's choice for defining and measuring risk. I think this is the case largely
because volatility is quantifiable and thus usable in the calculations and models of modern finance theory.
In the book I called it "machinable," and there is no substitute for the purposes of the calculations.

However, while volatility is quantifiable and machinable - and can also be an indicator or symptom of
riskiness and even a specific form of risk - I think it falls far short as "the" definition of investment risk.
In thinking about risk, we want to identify the thing that investors worry about and thus demand
compensation for bearing. I don't think most investors fear volatility. In fact, I've never heard anyone
say, "The prospective return isn't high enough to warrant bearing all that volatility." What they fear is
the possibility of permanent loss.

Permanent loss is very different from volatility or fluctuation. A downward fluctuation - which by
definition is temporary - doesn't present a big problem if the investor is able to hold on and come out the
other side. A permanent loss - from which there won't be a rebound - can occur for either of two
reasons: (a) an otherwise-temporary dip is locked in when the investor sells during a downswing -
whether because of a loss of conviction; requirements stemming from his timeframe; financial exigency;
or emotional pressures, or (b) the investment itself is unable to recover for fundamental reasons. We can
ride out volatility, but we never get a chance to undo a permanent loss.

Of course, the problem with defining risk as the possibility of permanent loss is that it lacks the very thing
volatility offers: quantifiability. The probability of loss is no more measurable than the probability of
rain. It can be modeled, and it can be estimated (and by experts pretty well), but it cannot be known.

In Dare to Be Great II, I described the time I spent advising a sovereign wealth fund about how to
organize for the next thirty years. My presentation was built significantly around my conviction that risk
can't be quantified a priori. Another of their advisors, a professor from a business school north of New
York, insisted it can. This is something I prefer not to debate, especially with people who're sure they
have the answer but haven't bet much money on it.

One of the things the professor was sure could be quantified was the maximum a portfolio could fall
under adverse circumstances. But how can this be so if we don't know how adverse circumstances can be
or how they will influence returns? We might say "the market probably won't fall more than x% as long

as things aren't worse than y and z," but how can an absolute limit be specified? I wonder if the professor
had anticipated that the S&P 500 could fall 57% in the global crisis.

While writing the original memo on risk in 2006, an important thought came to me for the first time.
Forget about a priori; if you define risk as anything other than volatility, it can't be measured even after
the fact. If you buy something for $10 and sell it a year later for $20, was it risky or not? The novice
would say the profit proves it was safe, while the academic would say it was clearly risky, since the only
way to make 100% in a year is by taking a lot of risk. I'd say it might have been a brilliant, safe
investment that was sure to double or a risky dart throw that got lucky.

If you make an investment in 2012, you'll know in 2014 whether you lost money (and how much), but
you won't know whether it was a risky investment - that is, what the probability of loss was at the time
you made it. To continue the analogy, it may rain tomorrow, or it may not, but nothing that happens
tomorrow will tell you what the probability of rain was as of today. And the risk of rain is a very
good analogue (although I'm sure not perfect) for the risk of loss.

The Unknowable Future

It seems most people in the prediction business think the future is knowable, and all they have to
do is be among the ones who know it. Alternatively, they may understand (consciously or
unconsciously) that it's not knowable but believe they have to act as if it is in order to make a
living as an economist or investment manager.

On the other hand, I'm solidly convinced the future isn't knowable. I side with John Kenneth
Galbraith who said, "We have two classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who
don't know they don't know." There are several reasons for this inability to predict:

 We're well aware of many factors that can influence future events, such as governmental
 actions, individuals' spending decisions and changes in commodity prices. But these
 things are hard to predict, and I doubt anyone is capable of taking all of them into account
 at once. (People have suggested a parallel between this categorization and that of Donald
 Rumsfeld, who might have called these things "known unknowns": the things we know
 we don't know.)

 The future can also be influenced by events that aren't on anyone's radar today, such as
 calamities - natural or man-made - that can have great impact. The 9/11 attacks and the
 Fukushima disaster are two examples of things no one knew to think about. (These
 would be "unknown unknowns": the things we don't know we don't know.)

 There's far too much randomness at work in the world for future events to be predictable.
 As 2014 began, forecasters were sure the U.S. economy was gaining steam, but they were
 confounded when record cold weather caused GDP to fall 2.9% in the first quarter.

 And importantly, the connections between contributing influences and future outcomes
 are far too imprecise and variable for the results to be dependable.

That last point deserves discussion. Physics is a science, and for that reason an electrical engineer
can guarantee you that if you flip a switch over here, a light will go on over there . . . every time.
But there's good reason why economics is called "the dismal science," and in fact it isn't much of
a science at all. In just the last few years we've had opportunity to see - contrary to nearly

unanimous expectations - that interest rates near zero can fail to produce a strong rebound in
GDP, and that a reduction of bond buying on the part of the Fed can fail to bring on higher
interest rates. In economics and investments, because of the key role played by human behavior,
you just can't say for sure that "if A, then B," as you can in real science. The weakness of the
connection between cause and effect makes outcomes uncertain. In other words, it introduces
risk.

Given the near-infinite number of factors that influence the future, the great deal of randomness
present, and the weakness of the linkages, it's my solid belief that future events cannot be predicted
with any consistency. In particular, predictions of important divergences from trends and norms can't be
made with anything approaching the accuracy required for them to be helpful.

Coping with the Unknowable Future

Here's the essential conundrum: investing requires us to decide how to position a portfolio for
future developments, but the future isn't knowable.

Taken to slightly greater detail:

 Investing requires the taking of positions that will be affected by future developments.
 The existence of negative possibilities surrounding those future developments presents risk.
 Intelligent investors pursue prospective returns that they think compensate them for bearing the
 risk of negative future developments.
 But future developments are unpredictable.

How can investors deal with the limitations on their ability to know the future? The answer lies in the
fact that not being able to know the future doesn't mean we can't deal with it. It's one thing to know
what's going to happen and something very different to have a feeling for the range of possible outcomes
and the likelihood of each one happening. Saying we can't do the former doesn't mean we can't do the
latter.

The information we're able to estimate - the list of events that might happen and how likely each one is -
can be used to construct a probability distribution. Key point number one in this memo is that the
future should be viewed not as a fixed outcome that's destined to happen and capable of being
predicted, but as a range of possibilities and, hopefully on the basis of insight into their respective
likelihoods, as a probability distribution.

Since the future isn't fixed and future events can't be predicted, risk cannot be quantified with any
precision. I made the point in Risk, and I want to emphasize it here, that risk estimation has to be the
province of experienced experts, and their work product will by necessity be subjective, imprecise, and
more qualitative than quantitative (even if it's expressed in numbers).

There's little I believe in more than Albert Einstein's observation: "Not everything that counts can be
counted, and not everything that can be counted counts." I'd rather have an order-of-magnitude
approximation of risk from an expert than a precise figure from a highly educated statistician who knows
less about the underlying investments. British philosopher and logician Carveth Read put it this way: "It
is better to be vaguely right than exactly wrong."

By the way, in my personal life I tend to incorporate another of Einstein's comments: "I never think of the
future - it comes soon enough." We can't take that approach as investors, however. We have to think
about the future. We just shouldn't accord too much significance to our opinions.

We can't know what will happen. We can know something about the possible outcomes (and how
likely they are). People who have more insight into these things than others are likely to make
superior investors. As I said in the last paragraph of The Most Important Thing:

 Only investors with unusual insight can regularly divine the probability distribution that
 governs future events and sense when the potential returns compensate for the risks that
 lurk in the distribution's negative left-hand tail.

In other words, in order to achieve superior results, an investor must be able - with some regularity
- to find asymmetries: instances when the upside potential exceeds the downside risk. That's what
successful investing is all about.

Thinking in Terms of Diverse Outcomes

It's the indeterminate nature of future events that creates investment risk. It goes without saying that if
we knew everything that was going to happen, there wouldn't be any risk.

The return on a stock will be a function of the relationship between the price today and the cash flows
(income and sale proceeds) it will produce in the future. The future cash flows, in turn, will be a function
of the fundamental performance of the company and the way its stock is priced given that performance.
We invest on the basis of expectations regarding these things. It's tautological to say that if the
company's earnings and the valuation of those earnings meet our targets, the return will be as expected.
The risk in the investment therefore comes from the possibility that one or both will come in lower than
we think.

To oversimplify, investors in a given company may have an expectation that if A happens, that'll make B
happen, and if C and D also happen, then the result will be E. Factor A may be the pace at which a new
product finds an audience. That will determine factor B, the growth of sales. If A is positive, B should be
positive. Then if C (the cost of raw materials) is on target, earnings should grow as expected, and if D
(investors' valuation of the earnings) also meets expectations, the result should be a rising share price,
giving us the return we seek (E).

We may have a sense for the probability distributions governing future developments, and thus a feeling
for the likely outcome regarding each of developments A through E. The problem is that for each of
these, there can be lots of outcomes other than the ones we consider most likely. The possibility of less-
good outcomes is the source of risk. That leads me to my second key point, as expressed by Elroy
Dimson, a professor at the London Business School: "Risk means more things can happen than will
happen." This brief, pithy sentence contains a great deal of wisdom.

Here's how I put it in No Different This Time - The Lessons of '07 (December 2007):

 No ambiguity is evident when we view the past. Only the things that happened
 happened. But that definiteness doesn't mean the process that creates outcomes is
 clear-cut and dependable. Many things could have happened in each case in the
 past, and the fact that only one did happen understates the variability that existed.
 What I mean to say (inspired by Nicolas Nassim Taleb's Fooled by Randomness) is that

 the history that took place is only one version of what it could have been. If you accept
 this, then the relevance of history to the future is much more limited than may appear to
 be the case.

People who rely heavily on forecasts seem to think there's only one possibility, meaning risk can be
eliminated if they just figure out which one it is. The rest of us know many possibilities exist today, and
it's not knowable which of them will occur. Further, things are subject to change, meaning there will be
new possibilities tomorrow. This uncertainty as to which of the possibilities will occur is the source
of risk in investing.

Even a Probability Distribution Isn't Enough

I've stressed the importance of viewing the future as a probability distribution rather than a single
predetermined outcome. It's still essential to bear in mind key point number three: Knowing the
probabilities doesn't mean you know what's going to happen. For example, every good backgammon
player knows the probabilities governing throws of the dice. They know there are 36 possible outcomes,
and that six of them add up to the number seven (1-6, 2-5, 3-4, 4-3, 5-2 and 6-1). Thus the chance of
throwing a seven on any toss is 6 in 36, or 16.7%. There's absolutely no doubt about that. But even
though we know the probability of each number, we're far from knowing what number will come up on a
given roll.

Backgammon players are usually quite happy to make a move that will enable them to win unless the
opponent rolls twelve, since only one combination of the dice will produce it: 6-6. The probability of
rolling twelve is thus only 1 in 36, or less than 3%. But twelve does come up from time to time, and the
people it turns into losers end up complaining about having done the "right" thing but lost. As my friend
Bruce Newberg says, "There's a big difference between probability and outcome." Unlikely things
happen - and likely things fail to happen - all the time. Probabilities are likelihoods and very far from
certainties.

It's true with dice, and it's true in investing . . . and not a bad start toward conveying the essence of risk.
Think again about the quote above from Elroy Dimson: "Risk means more things can happen than will
happen." I find it particularly helpful to invert Dimson's observation for key point number four:
Even though many things can happen, only one will.

In Dare to Be Great II, I discussed the fact that economic decisions are usually best made on the basis of
"expected value": you multiply each potential outcome by its probability, sum the results, and select the
path with the highest total. But while expected value weights all of the possible outcomes on the basis of
their likelihood, there may be some individual outcomes that absolutely cannot be tolerated. Even though
many things can happen, only one will . . . and if something unacceptable can happen on the path with the
highest expected value, we may not be able to choose on that basis. We may have to shun that path in
order to avoid the extreme negative outcome. I always say I have no interest in being a skydiver who's
successful 95% of the time.

Investment performance (like life in general) is a lot like choosing a lottery winner by pulling one
ticket from a bowlful. The process through which the winning ticket is chosen can be influenced by
physical processes, and also by randomness. But it never amounts to anything but one ticket picked from
among many. Superior investors have a better sense for the tickets in the bowl, and thus for
whether it's worth buying a ticket in a lottery. Lesser investors have less of a sense for the probability
distribution and for whether the likelihood of winning the prize compensates for the risk that the cost of
the ticket will be lost.

Risk and Return

Both in the 2006 memo on risk and in my book, I showed two graphics that together make clear the
nature of investment risk. People have told me they're the best thing in the book, and since readers of this
memo might have not seen the old one or read the book, I'm going to repeat them here.

The first one below shows the relationship between risk and return as it is conventionally represented.
The line slopes upward to the right, meaning the two are "positively correlated": as risk increases, return
increases.

In both the old memo and the book, I went to great lengths to clarify what this is often - but erroneously -
taken to mean. We hear it all the time: "Riskier investments produce higher returns" and "If you want to
make more money, take more risk."

Both of these formulations are terrible. In brief, if riskier investments could be counted on to produce
higher returns, they wouldn't be riskier. Misplaced reliance on the benefits of risk bearing has led
investors to some very unpleasant surprises.

However, there's another, better way to describe this relationship: "Investments that seem riskier have to
appear likely to deliver higher returns, or else people won't make them." This makes perfect sense. If the
market is rational, the price of a seemingly risky asset will be set low enough that the reward for holding
it seems adequate to compensate for the risk present. But note the word "appear." We're talking about
investors' opinions regarding future return, not facts. Risky investments are - by definition - far from
certain to deliver on their promise of high returns. For that reason, I think the graphic below does a much
better job of portraying reality:

Here the underlying relationship between risk and return reflects the same positive general tendency as
the first graphic, but the result of each investment is shown as a range of possibilities, not the single
outcome suggested by the upward-sloping line. At each point along the horizontal risk axis, an
investment's prospective return is shown as a bell-shaped probability distribution turned on its side.

The conclusions are obvious from inspection. As you move to the right, increasing the risk:

 the expected return increases (as with the traditional graphic),
 the range of possible outcomes becomes wider, and
 the less-good outcomes become worse.

This is the essence of investment risk. Riskier investments are ones where the investor is less secure
regarding the eventual outcome and faces the possibility of faring worse than those who stick to
safer investments, and even of losing money. These investments are undertaken because the expected
return is higher. But things may happen other than that which is hoped for. Some of the possibilities are
superior to the expected return, but others are decidedly unattractive.

The first graph's upward-sloping line indicates the underlying directionality of the risk/return
relationship. But there's a lot more to consider than the fact that expected returns rise along with
perceived risk, and in that regard the first graph is highly misleading. The second graph shows both the
underlying trend and the increasing potential for actual returns to deviate from expectations. While the
expected return rises along with risk, so does the probability of lower returns . . . and even of losses. This
way of looking at things reflects Professor Dimson's dictum that more than one thing can happen.
That's reality in an unpredictable world.

The Many Forms of Risk

The possibility of permanent loss may be the main risk in investing, but it's not the only risk. I can
think of lots of other risks, many of which contribute to - or are components of - that main risk.

In the past, in addition to the risk of permanent loss, I've mentioned the risk of falling short. Some
investors face return requirements in order to make necessary payouts, as in the case of pension funds,
endowments and insurance companies. Others have more basic needs, like generating enough income to
live on.

Some investors with needs - particularly those who live on their income, and especially in today's low-
return environment - face a serious conundrum. If they put their money into safe investments, their
returns may be inadequate. But if they take on incremental risk in pursuit of a higher return, they
face the possibility of a still-lower return, and perhaps of permanent diminution of their capital,
rendering their subsequent income lower still. There's no easy way to resolve this conundrum.

There are actually two possible causes of inadequate returns: (a) targeting a high return and being
thwarted by negative events and (b) targeting a low return and achieving it. In other words, investors
face not one but two major risks: the risk of losing money and the risk of missing opportunities.
Either can be eliminated but not both. And leaning too far in order to avoid one can set you up to be
victimized by the other.

Potential opportunity costs - the result of missing opportunities - usually aren't taken as seriously as real
potential losses. But they do deserve attention. Put another way, we have to consider the risk of not
taking enough risk.

These days, the fear of losing money seems to have receded (since the crisis is all of six years in the past),
and the fear of missing opportunities is riding high, given the paltry returns available on safe, mundane
investments. Thus a new risk has arisen: FOMO risk, or the risk that comes from excessive fear of
missing out. It's important to worry about missing opportunities, since people who don't can invest too
conservatively. But when that worry becomes excessive, FOMO can drive an investor to do things he
shouldn't do and often doesn't understand, just because others are doing them: if he doesn't jump on the
bandwagon, he may be left behind to live with envy.

Over the last three years, Oaktree's response to the paucity of return has been to develop a suite of five
credit strategies that we hope will produce a 10% return, either net or gross (we can't claim to be more
precise than that). I call them collectively the "ten percent solution," after a Sherlock Holmes story called
The Seven-Per-Cent Solution (we aim to do better). Talking to clients about these strategies and helping
them choose between them has required me to focus on their risks.

"Just a minute," you might say, "the ten-year Treasury is paying just 21⁄2% and, as Jeremy Grantham says,
the risk-free rate is also return-free. How, then, can you target returns in the vicinity of 10%?" The
answer is that it can't be done without taking risk of some kind - and there are several candidates. I'll list
below a few risks that we're consciously bearing in order to generate the returns our clients desire:

 Today's ultra-low interest rates imply low returns for anyone who invests in what are deemed
 safe fixed income instruments. So Oaktree's pursuit of attractive returns centers on accepting and
 managing credit risk, or the risk that a borrower will be unable to pay interest and repay
 principal as scheduled. Treasurys are assumed to be free of credit risk, and most high grade
 corporates are thought to be nearly so. Thus those who intelligently accept incremental credit
 risk must do so with the expectation that the incremental return promised as compensation
 will prove sufficient.

 Voluntarily accepting credit risk has been at the core of what Oaktree has done since its
 beginning in 1995 (and in fact since the seed was planted in 1978, when I initiated Citibank's
 high yield bond effort). But bearing credit risk will lead to attractive returns only if it's done
 well. Our activities are based on two beliefs: (a) that because the investing establishment is
 averse to credit risk, the incremental returns we receive for bearing it will compensate generously
 for the risk entailed and (b) that credit risk is manageable - i.e., unlike the general future, credit
 risk can be gauged by experts (like us) and reduced through credit selection. It wouldn't make
 sense to voluntarily bear incremental credit risk if either of these two beliefs were lacking.

 Another way to access attractive returns in today's low-rate environment is to bear illiquidity
 risk in order to take advantage of investors' normal dislike for illiquidity (superior returns often
 follow from investor aversion). Institutions that held a lot of illiquid assets suffered considerably
 in the crisis of 2008, when they couldn't sell them; thus many developed a strong aversion to
 them and in some cases imposed limitations on their representation in portfolios. Additionally,
 today the flow of retail money is playing a big part in driving up asset prices and driving down
 returns. Since retail money has a harder time making its way to illiquid assets, this has made the
 returns on the latter appear more attractive. It's noteworthy that there aren't mutual funds or
 ETFs for many of the things we're investing in.

 Some strategies introduce it voluntarily and some can't get away from it: concentration risk.
 "Everyone knows" diversification is a good thing, since it reduces the impact on results of a
 negative development. But some people eschew the safety that comes with diversification in
 favor of concentrating their investments in assets or with managers they expect to outperform.

 And some investment strategies don't permit full diversification because of the limitations of
 their subject markets. Thus problems - if and when they occur - will be bigger per se.

 Especially given today's low interest rates, borrowing additional capital to enhance returns is
 another way to potentially increase returns. But doing so introduces leverage risk. Leverage
 adds to risk two ways. The first is magnification: people are attracted to leverage because it will
 magnify gains, but under unfavorable outcomes it will magnify losses instead.

 The second way in which leverage adds to risk stems from funding risk, one of the classic
 reasons for financial disaster. The stage is set when someone borrows short-term funds to make a
 long-term investment. If the funds have to be repaid at an awkward time - due to their maturity,
 a margin call, or some other reason - and the purchased assets can't be sold in a timely fashion
 (or can only be sold at a depressed price), an investment that might otherwise have been
 successful can be cut short and end in sorrow. Little or nothing may remain of the sale proceeds
 once the leverage has been repaid, in which case the investor's equity will be decimated. This is
 commonly called a meltdown. It's the primary reason for the saying, "Never forget the six-foot-
 tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average." In times of crisis,
 success over the long run can become irrelevant.

 When credit risk, illiquidity risk, concentration risk and leverage risk are borne
 intelligently, it is in the hope that the investor's skill will be sufficient to produce success. If
 so, the potential incremental returns that appear to be offered as risk compensation will
 turn into realized incremental returns (per the graphic at the top of page 6). That's the only
 reason anyone would do these things.

 As the graphic at the bottom of page 6 illustrates, however, investing further out on the risk curve
 exposes one to a broader range of investment outcomes. In an efficient market, returns are
 tethered to the market average; in an inefficient market, they're not. Inefficient markets offer
 the possibility that an investor will escape from the "gravitational pull" of the market's
 average return, but that can be either for the better or for the worse. Superior investors -
 those with "alpha," or the personal skill needed to achieve outsized returns for a given level of
 risk - have scope to perform well above the mean return, while inferior investors can come out
 far below. So hiring an investment manager introduces manager risk: the risk of picking the
 wrong one. It's possible to pay management fees but get decisions that detract from results rather
 than add.

Some or all of the above risks are potentially entailed in our new credit strategies. Parsing them allows
investors to choose among the strategies and accept the risks they're more comfortable with. The process
can be quite informative.

Our oldest "new strategy" is Enhanced Income, where we use leverage to magnify the return from a
portfolio of senior loans. We think senior loans have the lowest credit risk of anything Oaktree deals
with, since they're senior-most among their issuer's debt and historically have produced very few credit
losses. Further, they're among our most liquid assets, meaning we face relatively little illiquidity risk,
and being active in a broad public market permits us to diversify, reducing concentration risk. Given the
relatively high degree of safety stemming from these loans' seniority, returns aren't overly dependent on
the presence of alpha, meaning Enhanced Income entails less manager risk than some other strategies.
But to have a chance at the healthy return we're pursuing in Enhanced Income requires us to take some
risk, and what we're left with is leverage risk. The 3-to-1 leverage in Enhanced Income Fund II will
magnify the negative impact of any credit losses (of course we hope there won't be many). However,
we're not worried about a meltdown, since the current environment allows us to avoid funding risk; we

can (a) borrow for a term that exceeds the duration of the underlying investments and (b) do so without
the threat of margin calls related to price declines.

Strategic Credit, Mezzanine Finance, European Private Debt and Real Estate Debt are the other four
components of our "ten percent solution."

 All four entail some degree of credit risk, illiquidity risk (they all invest heavily or entirely in
 private debt) and concentration risk (as their market niches offer only a modest number of
 investment opportunities, and securing them in today's competitive environment is a challenge).

 The Real Estate Debt Fund can only lever up to 1-to-1, and the other three borrow only small
 amounts and for short-term purposes, so none of them entails significant leverage risk.

 However, in order to succeed they'll all require a high level of skill from their managers in
 identifying return prospects and keeping risk under control. Thus they all entail manager risk.
 Our response is to entrust these portfolios only to managers who've been with us for years.

It's reasonable - essential, really - to study the risk entailed in every investment and accept the
amounts and types of risk that you're comfortable with (assuming this can be discerned). It's not
reasonable to expect highly superior returns without bearing some incremental risk.

I touched above on concentration risk, but we should also think about the flip side: the risk of over-
diversification. If you have just a few holdings in a portfolio, or if an institution employs just a few
managers, one bad decision can do significant damage to results. But if you have a very large number of
holdings or managers, no one of them can have much of a positive impact on performance. Nobody
invests in just the one stock or manager they expect to perform best, but as the number of positions is
expanded, the standards for inclusion may decline. Peter Lynch coined the term "diworstification" to
describe the process through which lesser investments are added to portfolios, making the potential risk-
adjusted return worse.

While I don't think volatility and risk are synonymous, there's no doubt that volatility does present risk.
If circumstances cause you to sell a volatile investment at the wrong time, you might turn a downward
fluctuation into a permanent loss. Moreover, even in the absence of a need for liquidity, volatility can
prey on investors' emotions, reducing the probability they'll do the right thing. And in the short run, it
can be very hard to differentiate between a downward fluctuation and a permanent loss. Often this
can really be done only in retrospect. Thus it's clear that a professional investor may have to bear
consequences for a temporary downward fluctuation simply because of its resemblance to a permanent
loss. When you're under pressure, the distinction between "volatility" and "loss" can seem only
semantic. Volatility is not "the" definition of investment risk, as I said earlier, but it isn't irrelevant.

One example of a risk connected with volatility - or the deviation of price from what might be intrinsic
value - is basis risk. Arbitrageurs customarily set up positions where they're long one asset and short a
related asset. The two assets are expected to move roughly in parallel, except that the one that's slightly
cheaper should make more money for the investor in the long run than the other loses, producing a small
net gain with little risk. Because these trades are considered so low in risk, they're often levered up to the
sky. But sometimes the prices of the two assets diverge to an unexpected extent, and the equity invested
in the trade evaporates. That unexpected divergence is basis risk, and it's what happened to Long-Term
Capital Management in 1998, one of the most famous meltdowns of all time. As Long-Term's chairman
John Meriwether said at the time, "the Fund added to its positions in anticipation of convergence, yet . . .
the trades diverged dramatically." This benign-sounding explanation was behind a collapse some thought
capable of bringing down the global financial system.

Long-Term's failure was also attributable to model risk. Decisions can be turned over to quants or
financial engineers who either (a) conclude wrongly that an unsystematic process can be modeled or (b)
employ the wrong model. During the financial crisis, models often assumed that events would occur
according to a "normal distribution," but extreme "tail events" occurred much more often than the normal
distribution says they will. Not only can extreme events exceed a model's assumptions, but excessive
belief in a model's efficacy can induce people to take risks they would never take on the basis of
qualitative judgment. They're often disappointed to find they had put too much faith in a statistical sure
thing.

Model risk can arise from black swan risk, for which I borrow the title of Nassim Nicholas Taleb's
popular second book. People tend to confuse "never been seen" with "impossible," and the consequences
can be dire when something occurs for the first time. That's part of the reason why people lost so much
in highly levered subprime mortgage securities. The fact that a nationwide spate of mortgage defaults
hadn't happened convinced investors that it couldn't happen, and their certainty caused them to take
actions so imprudent that it had to happen.

As long as we're on the subject of things going wrong, we should touch on the subject of career risk. As
I mentioned in Dare to Be Great II, "agents" who manage money for others can be penalized for
investments that look like losers (that is, for both permanent losses and temporary downward
fluctuations). Either of these unfortunate experiences can result in headline risk if the resulting losses
are big enough to make it into the media, and some careers can't withstand headline risk. Investors who
lack the potential to share commensurately in investment successes face a reward asymmetry that can
force them toward the safe end of the risk/return curve. They are likely to think more about the risk of
losing money than about the risk of missing opportunities. Thus their portfolios may lean too far toward
controlling risk and avoiding embarrassment (and they may not take enough chances to generate returns).
There are consequences for these investors, as well as for those who employ them.

Event risk is another risk to worry about, something that was created by bond issuers about twenty years
ago. Since corporate directors have a fiduciary responsibility to stockholders but not to bondholders,
some think they can (and perhaps should) do anything that's not explicitly prohibited to transfer value
from bondholders to stockholders. Bondholders need covenants to shield them from this kind of pro-
active plundering, but at times like today it can be hard to obtain strong protective covenants.

There are many ways for an investment to be unsuccessful. The two main ones are fundamental risk
(relating to how a company or asset performs in the real world) and valuation risk (relating to how the
market prices that performance). For years investors, fiduciaries and rule-makers acted on the belief that
it's safe to buy high-quality assets and risky to buy low-quality assets. But between 1968 and 1973, many
investors in the "Nifty Fifty" (the stocks of the fifty fastest-growing and best companies in America) lost
80-90% of their money. Attitudes have evolved since then, and today there's less of an assumption that
high quality prevents fundamental risk, and much less preoccupation with quality for its own sake.

On the other hand, investors are more sensitive to the pivotal role played by price. At bottom, the
riskiest thing is overpaying for an asset (regardless of its quality), and the best way to reduce risk is
by paying a price that's irrationally low (ditto). A low price provides a "margin of safety," and that's
what risk-controlled investing is all about. Valuation risk should be easily combatted, since it's
largely within the investor's control. All you have to do is refuse to buy if the price is too high given
the fundamentals. "Who wouldn't do that?" you might ask. Just think about the people who bought into
the tech bubble.

Fundamental risk and valuation risk bear on the risk of losing money in an individual security or asset,
but that's far from the whole story. Correlation is the essential additional piece of the puzzle.

Correlation is the degree to which an asset's price will move in sympathy with the movements of others.
The higher the correlation among its components, all other things being equal, the less effective
diversification a portfolio has, and the more exposed it is to untoward developments.

An asset doesn't have "a correlation." Rather, it has a different correlation with every other asset. A
bond has a certain correlation with a stock. One stock has a certain correlation with another stock (and a
different correlation with a third). Stocks of one type (such as emerging market, high-tech or large-cap)
are likely to be highly correlated with others within their category, but they may be either high or low in
correlation with those in other categories. Bottom line: it's hard to estimate the riskiness of a given
asset, but many times harder to estimate its correlation with all the other assets in a portfolio, and
thus the impact on performance of adding it to the portfolio. This is a real art.

Fixed income investors are directly exposed to another form of risk: interest rate risk. Higher interest
rates mean lower bond prices - that relationship is absolute. The impact of changes in interest rates on
asset classes other than fixed income is less direct and less obvious, but it also pervades the markets.
Note that stocks usually go down when the Fed says the economy is performing strongly. Why? The
thinking is that stronger economy = higher interest rates = more competition for stocks from bonds =
lower stock valuations. Or it might be stronger economy = higher interest rates = reduced stimulus =
weaker economy.

One of the reasons for increases in interest rates relates to purchasing power risk. Investors in securities
(and especially long-term bonds) are exposed to the risk that if inflation rises, the amount they receive in
the future will buy less than it could today. This causes investors to insist on higher interest rates and
higher prospective returns to protect them against the loss of purchasing power. The result is lower
prices.

Finally, I want to mention a new concept I hear about once in a while: upside risk. Forecasters are
sometimes heard to say "the risk is on the upside." At first this doesn't seem to have much legitimacy,
but it can be about the possibility that the economy may catch fire and do better than expected, earnings
may come in above consensus, or the stock market may appreciate more than people think. Since these
things are positives, there's risk in being underexposed to them.

 * * *

To move to the biggest of big pictures, I want to make a few over-arching comments about risk.

The first is that risk is counterintuitive.

 The riskiest thing in the world is the widespread belief that there's no risk.
 Fear that the market is risky (and the prudent investor behavior that results) can render it quite
 safe.
 As an asset declines in price, making people view it as riskier, it becomes less risky (all else being
 equal).
 As an asset appreciates, causing people to think more highly of it, it becomes riskier.
 Holding only "safe" assets of one type can render a portfolio under-diversified and make it
 vulnerable to a single shock.
 Adding a few "risky" assets to a portfolio of safe assets can make it safer by increasing its
 diversification. Pointing this out was one of Professor William Sharpe's great contributions.

The second is that risk aversion is the thing that keeps markets safe and sane.

 When investors are risk-conscious, they will demand generous risk premiums to compensate
 them for bearing risk. Thus the risk/return line will have a steep slope (the unit increase in
 prospective return per unit increase in perceived risk will be large) and the market should reward
 risk-bearing as theory asserts.
 But when people forget to be risk-conscious and fail to require compensation for bearing risk,
 they'll make risky investments even if risk premiums are skimpy. The slope of the line will be
 gradual, and risk taking is likely to eventually be penalized, not rewarded.
 When risk aversion is running high, investors will perform extensive due diligence, make
 conservative assumptions, apply skepticism and deny capital to risky schemes.
 But when risk tolerance is widespread instead, these things will fall by the wayside and deals will
 be done that set the scene for subsequent losses.

Simply put, risk is low when risk aversion and risk consciousness are high, and high when they're low.

The third is that risk is often hidden and thus deceptive. Loss occurs when risk - the possibility of
loss - collides with negative events. Thus the riskiness of an investment becomes apparent only when it
is tested in a negative environment. It can be risky but not show losses as long as the environment
remains salutary. The fact that an investment is susceptible to a serious negative development that will
occur only infrequently - what I call "the improbable disaster" - can make it appear safer than it really is.
Thus after several years of a benign environment, a risky investment can easily pass for safe. That's why
Warren Buffett famously said, ". . . you only find out who's swimming naked when the tide goes out."

Assembling a portfolio that incorporates risk control as well as the potential for gains is a great
accomplishment. But it's a hidden accomplishment most of the time, since risk only turns into loss
occasionally . . . when the tide goes out.

The fourth is that risk is multi-faceted and hard to deal with. In this memo I've mentioned 24
different forms of risk: the risk of losing money, the risk of falling short, the risk of missing opportunities,
FOMO risk, credit risk, illiquidity risk, concentration risk, leverage risk, funding risk, manager risk, over-
diversification risk, risk associated with volatility, basis risk, model risk, black swan risk, career risk,
headline risk, event risk, fundamental risk, valuation risk, correlation risk, interest rate risk, purchasing
power risk, and upside risk. And I'm sure I've omitted some. Many times these risks are overlapping,
contrasting and hard to manage simultaneously. For example:

 Efforts to reduce the risk of losing money invariably increase the risk of missing out.
 Efforts to reduce fundamental risk by buying higher-quality assets often increase valuation risk,
 given that higher-quality assets often sell at elevated valuation metrics.

At bottom, it's the inability to arrive at a single formula that simultaneously minimizes all the risks that
makes investing the fascinating and challenging pursuit it is.

The fifth is that the task of managing risk shouldn't be left to designated risk managers. I'm
convinced outsiders to the fundamental investment process can't know enough about the subject assets to
make appropriate decisions regarding each one. All they can do is apply statistical models and norms.
But those models may be the wrong ones for the underlying assets - or just plain faulty - and there's little
evidence that they add value. In particular, risk managers can try to estimate correlation and tell you how
things will behave when combined in a portfolio. But they can fail to adequately anticipate the "fault

lines" that run through portfolios. And anyway, as the old saying goes, "in times of crisis all correlations
go to one" and everything collapses in unison.

"Value at Risk" was supposed to tell the banks how much they could lose on a very bad day. During the
crisis, however, VaR was often shown to have understated the risk, since the assumptions hadn't been
harsh enough. Given the fact that risk managers are required at banks and de rigueur elsewhere, I think
more money was spent on risk management in the early 2000s than in the rest of history combined . . .
and yet we experienced the worst financial crisis in 80 years. Investors can calculate risk metrics like
VaR and Sharpe ratios (we use them at Oaktree; they're the best tools we have), but they shouldn't put
too much faith in them. The bottom line for me is that risk management should be the responsibility
of every participant in the investment process, applying experience, judgment and knowledge of the
underlying investments.

The sixth is that while risk should be dealt with constantly, investors are often tempted to do so only
sporadically. Since risk only turns into loss when bad things happen, this can cause investors to apply
risk control only when the future seems ominous. At other times they may opt to pile on risk in the
expectation that good things lie ahead. But since we can't predict the future, we never really know when
risk control will be needed. Risk control is unnecessary in times when losses don't occur, but that doesn't
mean it's wrong to have it. The best analogy is to fire insurance: do you consider it a mistake to have
paid the premium in a year in which your house didn't burn down?

Taken together these six observations convince me that Charlie Munger's trenchant comment on
investing in general - "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid." - is
profoundly applicable to risk management. Effective risk management requires deep insight and a deft
touch. It has to be based on a superior understanding of the probability distributions that will govern
future events. Those who would achieve it have to have a good sense for what the crucial moving parts
are, what will influence them, what outcomes are possible, and how likely each one is. Following on
with Charlie's idea, thinking risk control is easy is perhaps the greatest trap in investing, since
excessive confidence that they have risk under control can make investors do very risky things.

Thus the key prerequisites for risk control also include humility, lack of hubris, and knowing what
you don't know. No one ever got into trouble for confessing a lack of prescience, being highly risk-
conscious, and even investing scared. Risk control may restrain results during a rebound from crisis
conditions or extreme under-valuations, when those who take the most risk generally make the most
money. But it will also extend an investment career and increase the likelihood of long-term success.
That's why Oaktree was built on the belief that risk control is "the most important thing."

Lastly while dealing in generalities, I want to point out that whereas risk control is indispensable,
risk avoidance isn't an appropriate goal. The reason is simple: risk avoidance usually goes hand-
in-hand with return avoidance. While you shouldn't expect to make money just for bearing risk,
you also shouldn't expect to make money without bearing risk.

 * * *

At present I consider risk control more important than usual. To put it briefly:

 Today's ultra-low interest rates have brought the prospective returns on money market
 instruments, Treasurys and high grade bonds to nearly zero.
 This has caused money to flood into riskier assets in search of higher returns.
 This, in turn, has caused some investors to drop their usual caution and engage in aggressive
 tactics.
 And this, finally, has caused standards in the capital markets to deteriorate, making it easy for
 issuers to place risky securities and - consequently - hard for investors to buy safe ones.

Warren Buffett put it best, and I regularly return to his statement on the subject:

 . . . the less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence
 with which we should conduct our own affairs.

While investor behavior hasn't sunk to the depths seen just before the crisis (and, in my opinion, that
contributed greatly to it), in many ways it has entered the zone of imprudence. To borrow a metaphor
from Chuck Prince, Citigroup's CEO from 2003 to 2007, anyone who's totally unwilling to dance to
today's fast-paced music can find it challenging to put money to work.

It's the job of investors to strike a proper balance between offense and defense, and between worrying
about losing money and worrying about missing opportunity. Today I feel it's important to pay more
attention to loss prevention than to the pursuit of gain. For the last three years Oaktree's mantra has
been "move forward, but with caution." At this time, in reiterating that mantra, I would increase the
emphasis on those last three words: "but with caution."

Economic and company fundamentals in the U.S. are fine today, and asset prices - while full - don't
seem to be at bubble levels. But when undemanding capital markets and a low level of risk aversion
combine to encourage investors to engage in risky practices, something usually goes wrong eventually.
Although I have no idea what could make the day of reckoning come sooner rather than later, I
don't think it's too early to take today's carefree market conditions into consideration. What I do
know is that those conditions are creating a degree of risk for which there is no commensurate risk
premium. We have to behave accordingly.


Memo: The Lessons of Oil.

I want to provide a memo on this topic before I - and hopefully many of my readers - head out for year-
end holidays. I'll be writing not with regard to the right price for oil - about which I certainly have no
unique insight - but rather, as indicated by the title, about what we can learn from recent experience.

 Despite my protestations that I don't know any more than others about future macro events - and
 thus that my opinions on the macro are unlikely to help anyone achieve above average
 performance - people insist on asking me about the future. Over the last eighteen months (since
 Ben Bernanke's initial mention that we were likely to see some "tapering" of bond buying), most
 of the macro questions I've gotten have been about whether the Fed would move to increase
 interest rates, and particularly when. These are the questions that have been on everyone's mind.

 Since mid-2013, the near-unanimous consensus (with credit to DoubleLine's Jeffrey Gundlach
 for vocally departing from it) has been that rates would rise. And, of course, the yield on the 10-
 year Treasury has fallen from roughly 3% at that time to 2.2% today. This year many investing
 institutions are underperforming the passive benchmarks and attributing part of the shortfall to the
 fact that their fixed income holdings have been too short in duration to allow them to benefit from
 the decline of interest rates. While this has nothing to do with oil, I mention it to provide a
 reminder that what "everyone knows" is usually unhelpful at best and wrong at worst.

 Not only did the investing herd have the outlook for rates wrong, but it was uniformly
 inquiring about the wrong thing. In short, while everyone was asking whether the rate rise
 would begin in December 2014 or April 2015 (or might it be June?) - in response to which I
 consistently asked why the answer matters and how it might alter investment decisions - few
 people I know were talking about whether the price of oil was in for a significant change.

 Back in 2007, in It's All Good, I provided a brief list of some possibilities for which I thought
 stock prices weren't giving enough allowance. I included "$100 oil" (since a barrel was selling in
 the $70s at the time) and ended with "the things I haven't thought of." I suggested that it's
 usually that last category - the things that haven't been considered - we should worry about most.
 Asset prices are often set to allow for the risks people are aware of. It's the ones they
 haven't thought of that can knock the market for a loop.

 In my book The Most Important Thing, I mentioned something I call "the failure of imagination."
 I defined it as "either being unable to conceive of the full range of possible outcomes or not
 understanding the consequences of the more extreme occurrences." Both aspects of the definition
 apply here.

 The usual starting point for forecasting something is its current level. Most forecasts extrapolate,
 perhaps making modest adjustments up or down. In other words, most forecasting is done
 incrementally, and few predictors contemplate order-of-magnitude changes. Thus I imagine that
 with Brent crude around $110 six months ago, the bulls were probably predicting $115 or $120
 and the bears $105 or $100. Forecasters usually stick too closely to the current level, and on

 those rare occasions when they call for change, they often underestimate the potential
 magnitude. Very few people predicted oil would decline significantly, and fewer still mentioned
 the possibility that we would see $60 within six months.

 For several decades, Byron Wien of Blackstone (and formerly of Morgan Stanley, where he
 authored widely read strategy pieces) has organized summer lunches in the Hamptons for
 "serious," prominent investors. At the conclusion of the 2014 series in August, he reported as
 follows with regard to the consensus of the participants:

 Most believed that the price of oil would remain around present levels. Several
 trillion dollars have been invested in drilling over the last few years and yet
 production is flat because Nigeria, Iraq and Libya are producing less. The U.S.
 and Europe are reducing consumption, but that is being more than offset by
 increasing demand from the developing world, particularly China. Five years
 from now the price of Brent is likely to be closer to $120 because of emerging
 market demand.

 I don't mean to pick on Byron or his luncheon guests. In fact, I think the sentiments he reported
 were highly representative of most investors' thinking at the time.

 As a side note, it's interesting to observe that growth in China already was widely understood to
 be slowing, but perhaps that recognition never made its way into the views on oil of those present
 at Byron's lunches. This is an example of how hard it can be to appropriately factor all of
 the relevant considerations into complex real-world analysis.

 Turning to the second aspect of "the failure of imagination" and going beyond the inability of
 most people to imagine extreme outcomes, the current situation with oil also illustrates how
 difficult it is to understand the full range of potential ramifications. Most people easily grasp
 the immediate impact of developments, but few understand the "second-order"
 consequences . . . as well as the third and fourth. When these latter factors come to be
 reflected in asset prices, this is often referred to as "contagion." Everyone knew in 2007 that the
 sub-prime crisis would affect mortgage-backed securities and homebuilders, but it took until 2008
 for them to worry equally about banks and the rest of the economy.

 The following list is designed to illustrate the wide range of possible implications of an oil price
 decline, both direct consequences and their ramifications:

 o Lower prices mean reduced revenue for oil-producing nations such as Saudi Arabia,
 Russia and Brunei, causing GDP to contract and budget deficits to rise.
 o There's a drop in the amounts sent abroad to purchase oil by oil-importing nations like
 the U.S., China, Japan and the United Kingdom.
 o Earnings decline at oil exploration and production companies but rise for airlines whose
 fuel costs decline.
 o Investment in oil drilling declines, causing the earnings of oil services companies to
 shrink, along with employment in the industry.
 o Consumers have more money to spend on things other than energy, benefitting consumer
 goods companies and retailers.
 o Cheaper gasoline causes driving to increase, bringing gains for the lodging and restaurant
 industries.

 o With the cost of driving lower, people buy bigger cars - perhaps sooner than they
 otherwise would have - benefitting the auto companies. They also keep buying gasoline-
 powered cars, slowing the trend toward alternatives, to the benefit of the oil industry.
 o Likewise, increased travel stimulates airlines to order more planes - a plus for the
 aerospace companies - but at the same time the incentives decline to replace older planes
 with fuel-efficient ones. (This is a good example of the analytical challenge: is the net
 impact on airplane orders positive or negative?)
 o By causing the demand for oil services to decline, reduced drilling leads the service
 companies to bid lower for business. This improves the economics of drilling and thus
 helps the oil companies.
 o Ultimately, if things get bad enough for oil companies and oil service companies, banks
 and other lenders can be affected by their holdings of bad loans.

 Further, it's hard for most people to understand the self-correcting aspects of economic
 events.

 o A decline in the price of gasoline induces people to drive more, increasing the demand
 for oil.
 o A decline in the price of oil negatively impacts the economics of drilling, reducing
 additions to supply.
 o A decline in the price of oil causes producers to cut production and leave oil in the
 ground to be sold later at higher prices.

 In all these ways, lower prices either increase the demand for oil or reduce the supply, causing the
 price of oil to rise (all else being equal). In other words, lower oil prices - in and of themselves -
 eventually make for higher oil prices. This illustrates the dynamic nature of economics.

 Finally, in addition to the logical but often hard-to-anticipate second-order consequences or
 knock-on effects, negative developments often morph in illogical ways. Thus, in response to
 cascading oil prices, "I'm going to sell out of emerging markets that rely on oil exports" can turn
 into "I'm going to sell out of all emerging markets," even oil importers that are aided by cheaper
 oil.

 In part the emotional reaction to negative developments is the product of surprise and
 disillusionment. Part of this may stem from investors' inability to understand the "fault lines"
 that run through their portfolios. Investors knew changes in oil prices would affect oil
 companies, oil services companies, airlines and autos. But they may not have anticipated the
 effects on currencies, emerging markets and below-investment grade credit broadly. Among
 other things, they rarely understand that capital withdrawals and the resulting need for liquidity
 can lead to urgent selling of assets that are completely unrelated to oil. People often fail to
 perceive that these fault lines exist, and that contagion can reach as far as it does. And then,
 when that happens, investors turn out to be unprepared, both intellectually and
 emotionally.

 A grain of truth underlies most big up and down moves in asset prices. Not just "oil's in
 oversupply" today, but also "the Internet will change the world" and "mortgage debt has
 historically been safe." Psychology and herd behavior make prices move too far in response to
 those underlying grains of truth, causing bubbles and crashes, but also leading to opportunities to
 make great sales of overpriced assets on the rise and bargain purchases in the subsequent fall. If
 you think markets are logical and investors are objective and unemotional, you're in for a
 lot of surprises. In tough times, investors often fail to apply discipline and discernment;

 psychology takes over from fundamentals; and "all correlations go to one," as things that should
 be distinguished from each other aren't.

 To give you an idea about how events in one part of the economy can have repercussions in other
 economic and market segments, I'll quote from some of the analyses I've received this week from
 Oaktree investment professionals:

 o Energy is a very significant part of the high yield bond market. In fact, it is the largest sector
 today (having taken over from media/telecom, which has traditionally been the largest). This
 is the case because the exploration industry is highly capital-intensive, and the high yield
 bond market has been the easiest place to raise capital. The knock-on effects of a precipitous
 fall in bond prices in the biggest sector in the high yield bond market are potentially
 substantial: outflows of capital, and mutual fund and ETF selling. It would be great for
 opportunistic buyers if the selling gets to sectors that are fundamentally in fine shape . . .
 because a number of them are. And, in fact, low oil prices can even make them better.

 o An imperfect analogy might be instructive: capital market conditions for energy-related assets
 today are not unlike what we saw in the telecom sector in 2002. As in telecom, you've had
 the confluence of really cheap financing, innovative technology, and prices for the product
 that were quite stable for a good while. [To this list of contributing factors, I would add the
 not-uncommon myth of perpetually escalating demand for a product.] These conditions
 resulted in the creation of an oversupply of capacity in oil, leading to a downdraft. It's
 historically unprecedented for the energy sector to witness this type of market downturn
 while the rest of the economy is operating normally. Like in 2002, we could see a scenario
 where the effects of this sector dislocation spread wider in a general "contagion."

 o Selling has been reasonably indiscriminate and panicky (much like telecom in 2002) as
 managers have realized (too late) how overexposed they are to the energy sector. Trading
 desks do not have sufficient capital to make markets, and thus price swings have been
 predictably volatile. The oil selloff has also caused deterioration in emerging market
 fundamentals and may force spreads to gap out there. This ultimately may create a feedback
 loop that results in contagion to high yield bonds generally.

 Over the last year or so, while continuing to feel that U.S. economic growth will be slow and
 unsteady in the next year or two, I came to the conclusion that any surprises were most likely to
 be to the upside. And my best candidate for a favorable development has been the possibility that
 the U.S. would sharply increase its production of oil and gas. This would make the U.S. oil-
 independent, making it a net exporter of oil and giving it a cost advantage in energy - based on
 cheap production from fracking and shale - and thus a cost advantage in manufacturing. Now,
 the availability of cheap oil all around the world threatens those advantages. So much for macro
 forecasting!

 There's a great deal to be said about the price change itself. A well-known quote from economist
 Rudiger Dornbusch goes as follows: "In economics things take longer to happen than you
 think they will, and then they happen faster than you thought they could." I don't know if
 many people were thinking about whether the price of oil would change, but the decline of 40%-
 plus must have happened much faster than anyone thought possible.

 "Everyone knows" (now!) that the demand for oil turned soft (due to sluggish economic growth,
 increased fuel efficiency and the emergence of alternatives) at the same time that the supply was

 increasing (as new sources came on stream). Equally, everyone knows that lower demand and
 higher supply imply lower prices. Yet it seems few people recognized the ability of these
 changes to alter the price of oil. A good part of this probably resulted from belief in the ability of
 OPEC (meaning largely the Saudis) to support prices by limiting production.

 A price that's kept aloft by the operation of a cartel is, by definition, higher than it would be
 based on supply and demand alone. Maybe the thing that matters is how far the cartelized price is
 from the free-market price; the bigger the gap, the shorter the period for which the cartel will be
 able to maintain control. Initially a cartel or a few of its members may be willing to bear pain to
 support the price by limiting production even while others produce full-out. But there may come
 a time when the pain becomes unacceptable and the price supporters quit. The key lesson here
 may be that cartels and other anti-market mechanisms can't hold forever. As Herb Stein
 said, "If something cannot go on forever, it will stop." Maybe we've just proved that this extends
 to the effectiveness of cartels.

 Anyway, on the base of 93 million barrels a day of world oil use, some softness in consumption
 combined with an increase in production to cut the price by more than 40% in just a few months.
 What this proves - about most things - is that to Dornbusch's quote above we should
 append the words ". . . and they go much further than you thought they could."

 The extent of the price decline seems much greater than the changes in supply and demand would
 call for. Perhaps to understand it you have to factor in (a) Saudi Arabia's ceasing to balance
 supply and demand in the oil market by cutting production, after having done so for many years,
 and (b) a large contribution to the decline on the part of psychology. (In the "conspiracy theory"
 department, consider the rumor that Saudi Arabia is allowing or abetting the price drop in order to
 either punish Iran, Iraq and ISIL; put the U.S. shale oil industry out of business; or discipline the
 more profligate members of OPEC . . . take your pick.)

 The price of oil thus may have gone from too high (supported by OPEC and by Saudi Arabia in
 particular) to too low (depressed by negative psychology). It seems to me with regard to the latter
 that the price fell too far for some market participants to maintain their equanimity. I often
 imagine participants' internal dialogues. At $110, I picture them saying, "I'll buy like mad if it
 ever gets to $100." Because of the way investor psychology works, at $90 they may say, "If it
 falls to $70, I'll give serious thought to buying." But at $60 the tendency is to say, "It's a falling
 knife and there's no way to know where it'll stop; I wouldn't touch it at any price."

 It feels much better to buy assets while they're rising. But it's usually smarter to buy after
 they've fallen for a while. Bottom line, as noted above: there's little logic in investor
 psychology.

 I said it about gold in All That Glitters (November 2010), and it's equally relevant to oil: it's
 hard to analytically put a price on an asset that doesn't produce income. In principle, a non-
 perishable commodity won't be priced below the variable production cost of the highest-cost
 producer whose output is needed to satisfy total demand. But in reality and in the short run,
 strange things can happen. It's clear that today's oil price is well below that standard.

 It's hard to say what the right price is for a commodity like oil . . . and thus when the price is too
 high or too low. Was it too high at $100-plus, an unsustainable blip? History says no: it was
 there for 43 consecutive months through this past August. And if it wasn't too high then, isn't it
 laughably low today? The answer is that you just can't say. Ditto for whether the response of the
 price of oil to the changes in fundamentals has been appropriate, excessive or insufficient. And if

 you can't be confident about what the right price is, then you can't be definite about financial
 decisions regarding oil.

In the last few years, as I said in The Role of Confidence (August 2013), investor sentiment has been
riding high. Or, as Doug Kass pointed out this past summer, there's been "a bull market in
complacency." Regardless, it seems that a market that was unconcerned about things like oil and its
impact on economies and assets now has lost its composure. Especially given the pervasive role of
energy in economic life, uncertainty about oil introduces uncertainty into many aspects of investing.

"Value investing" - the form of investing Oaktree practices - is supposed to be about buying based on the
present value of assets, rather than conjecture about profit growth in the far-off future. But you can't
assess present value without taking some position on what the future holds, even if it's only assuming a
continuation of present conditions or perhaps - for the sake of conservatism - a considerably lower level.
Recent events cast doubt on the ability to safely take any position.

One of the things that's central to risk-conscious value investing is ascertaining the presence of a
generous cushion in terms of "margin of safety." This margin comes from conviction that conditions will
be stable, financial performance is predictable, and/or an entry price is low relative to the asset's intrinsic
value. But when something as central as oil is totally up for grabs, as investors seem to think is the case
today, it's hard to know whether you have an adequate margin. Referring to investing, Charlie Munger
told me, "It's not supposed to be easy." The recent events surrounding oil certainly prove that it isn't.

On the other hand - and in investing there's always another hand - high levels of confidence,
complacency and composure on the part of investors have in good measure given way to disarray
and doubt, making many markets much more to our liking. For the last few years, interest rates on
the safest securities - brought low by central banks - have been coercing investors to move out the risk
curve. Sometimes they've made that journey without cognizance of the risks they were taking, and
without thoroughly understanding the investments they undertook. Now they find themselves questioning
many of their actions, and it feels like risk tolerance is being replaced by risk aversion. This paragraph
describes a process through which investors are made to feel pain, but also one that makes markets
much safer and potentially more bargain-laden.

In particular with regard to the distress cycle, confident and optimistic credit markets permit the unwise
extension of credit to borrowers who are undeserving but allowed to become overlevered nevertheless.
Negative subsequent developments can render providers of capital less confident, making the capital
market less accommodative. This cycle of easy issuance followed by defrocking has been behind the
three debt crises that delivered the best buying opportunities in our 26 years in distressed debt. We think
it also holds the key to the creation of superior opportunities in the future.

We've argued for a few years that credit standards were dropping as investors - chasing yield - became
less disciplined and less discerning. But we knew great buying opportunities wouldn't arrive until a
negative "igniter" caused the tide to go out, exposing the debt's weaknesses. The current oil crisis is an
example of something with the potential to grow into that role. We'll see how far it goes.

For the last 31⁄2 years, Oaktree's mantra has been "move forward, but with caution." For the first time in
that span, with the arrival of some disarray and heightened risk aversion, events tell us it's appropriate to
drop some of our caution and substitute a degree of aggressiveness.