Memo: Liquidity.

My wife Nancy's accusations of repetitiveness notwithstanding, once in a while I think of something
about which I haven't written much. Liquidity is one of those things. I'm not sure it's a profound topic,
and perhaps my observations won't be either. But I think it's worth a memo.

Liquidity Defined

Sometimes people think of liquidity as the quality of something being readily saleable or marketable. For
this, the key question is whether it's registered, publicly listed and legal for sale to the public.
"Marketable securities" are liquid in this sense; you can buy or sell them in the public markets. "Non-
marketable" securities include things like private placements and interests in private partnerships, whose
salability is restricted and can require the qualification of buyers, documentation, and perhaps a time
delay.

But the more important definition of liquidity is this one from Investopedia: "The degree to which an
asset or security can be bought or sold in the market without affecting the asset's price." (Emphasis
added) Thus the key criterion isn't "can you sell it?" It's "can you sell it at a price equal or close to
the last price?" Most liquid assets are registered and/or listed; that can be a necessary but not sufficient
condition. For them to be truly liquid in this latter sense, one has to be able to move them promptly and
without the imposition of a material discount.

Liquidity Characterized

I often say many of the important things in investing are counter-intuitive. Liquidity is one of them. In
particular, it's probably more wrong than right to say without qualification that something is or
isn't "liquid."

If when people ask whether a given asset is liquid they mean "marketable" (in the sense of "listed" or
"registered"), then that's an entirely appropriate question, and answering it is straightforward. Either
something can be sold freely to the public or it can't.

But if what they want to know is how hard it will be to get rid of it if they change their mind or want to
take a profit or avoid a possible loss - how long it will take to sell it, or how much of a markdown they'll
have to take from the last price - that's probably not an entirely legitimate question.

It's often a mistake to say a particular asset is either liquid or illiquid. Usually an asset isn't
"liquid" or "illiquid" by its nature. Liquidity is ephemeral: it can come and go. An asset's liquidity
can increase or decrease with what's going on in the market. One day it can be easy to sell, and the next
day hard. Or one day it can be easy to sell but hard to buy, and the next day easy to buy but hard to sell.

In other words, the liquidity of an asset often depends on which way you want to go . . . and which
way everyone else wants to go. If you want to sell when everyone else wants to buy, you're likely to

find your position is highly liquid: you can sell it quickly, and at a price equal to or above the last
transaction. But if you want to sell when everyone else wants to sell, you may find your position is
totally illiquid: selling may take a long time, or require accepting a big discount, or both. If that's the
case - and I'm sure it is - then the asset can't be described as being either liquid or illiquid. It's
entirely situational.

There's usually plenty of liquidity for those who want to sell things that are rising in price or buy
things that are falling. That's great news, since much of the time those are the right actions to take.
But why is the liquidity plentiful? For the simple reason that most investors want to do just the opposite.
The crowd takes great pleasure from buying things whose prices are rising, and they often become highly
motivated to sell things that are falling . . . notwithstanding that those may be exactly the wrong things to
do.

Further, the liquidity of an asset is very much a function of the quantity involved. At a given time, a
stock may be liquid if you want to sell a thousand shares but highly illiquid if you want to sell a million.
If so, it can't be said categorically that the stock is either liquid or illiquid. But people do it all the
time.

Investment managers are often asked how long it would take to liquidate a given portfolio. The answer
usually takes the form of a schedule that says: "We could sell off x% of the portfolio in a day, y% in a
week, and z% in a month, etc."

But that's a terribly simplistic answer. It doesn't say anything about how the price received would
compare with the last trade or the price at which the assets were carried on the previous valuation date.
Or about how changing market conditions might make the answer different a month from now. Bottom
line: to the statement "we could sell off z% in a month" one should add "but who knows what the price
will be, or what effect changing market conditions might have on that percentage?" Anything else
requires an assumption that the assets' liquidity is constant. That's often far from the case.

Usually, just as a holder's desire to sell an asset increases (because he has become afraid to hold it),
his ability to sell it decreases (because everyone else has also become afraid to hold it). Thus (a)
things tend to be liquid when you don't need liquidity, and (b) just when you need liquidity most, it
tends not to be there. (In the 2014 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Letter, released early this month,
Warren Buffett expresses his dislike for "substitutes for cash that are claimed to deliver liquidity and
actually do so, except when it is truly needed.") The truth is, things often seem more liquid when you buy
than when you go to sell.

The bottom line is that it can be wrong to assume it'll be easy and painless to get out of your
holdings, and especially to exit a position after its price has begun to drop.

Liquidity and Opportunities

We watch TV, listen to radio or read newspapers. I'm always amused when the pundits say, "stocks went
up today because several companies beat analysts' earnings forecasts" or "the market dropped because of
increased uncertainty regarding the price of oil." How do they know? Where do buyers or sellers register
their motivations, such that the media can discern them so definitively?

There's only one indisputable explanation for why the market went up on a given day: there were more
buyers than sellers. When buyers have greater influence in the market than sellers - because would-be

buyers predominate relative to sellers; buyers feel more urgency than sellers; or buyers want to buy more
shares than sellers want to sell - prices rise. Under those circumstances, sellers enjoy great liquidity, and
buyers have to pay a premium over prior prices.

So there's the germ of a plan. Why not sell the things people are bidding for most strongly and buy
the things they're eager to dump? That sounds like a good idea. It is, and that's why smart investors
flock to it: it's called contrarianism.

One of the main reasons why opportunistic strategies like distressed debt investing can perform well is
that investors are sometimes able to buy from sellers who outnumber them . . . who are in a hurry . . . who
want to sell really badly . . . or who have to sell regardless of price. To achieve "immediacy" (a term for
a quick exit coined by Richard Bookstaber), the sellers tend to sacrifice something else: price. And the
price discount they accept makes an important contribution to the bargain hunter's excess return. (See
Investment Miscellany, November 2000, for a thorough discussion of immediacy).

Random Thoughts on Liquidity

Here are a number of truths about liquidity. Some are important, but they don't fit into a coherent
narrative.

 It's possible that liquidity can be relied on when sellers and buyers are balanced in number and
 degree of motivation. But more often, given the herd mentality in markets, "everyone" wants to
 either sell or buy at once.

 There's an old saying to the effect that "In times of crisis all correlations go to one." The prices
 of everything move in unison during crises because investors are driven by mob psychology, not
 fundamentals. Thus - and for the same reason - in times of crisis liquidity often goes to zero.

 Usually, as described above, it's either hard to buy but easy to sell, or hard to sell but easy to buy.
 Sometimes, however, when everyone's confused and intimidated, the market freezes up and
 it can be hard to do both.

 For example, after securities backed by sub-prime mortgages were thoroughly impugned in the
 crisis of 2007-08, there was a total lack of trading. The fact that the "last trade" occurred months
 ago made it hard for potential buyers and sellers to feel confident regarding what a fair price
 might be. I believe it was for this reason that the U.S. Treasury organized the Public Private
 Investment Partnership program, under which nine investment managers raised equity capital
 from clients for investment in mortgage backed securities, with the Treasury matching the equity
 and then supplying an equal amount of zero-cost leverage. The goal was to cause trading to
 occur, and with it "price discovery." After transactions resumed, buyers and sellers had a better
 idea what a fair price was, so trading and liquidity increased. This was one of the ways in which
 the government coaxed the capital markets to reopen. Yet this program is little known and its
 brilliance is unrecognized.

 It's one of my standing rules that "No investment vehicle should promise greater liquidity
 than is afforded by its underlying assets." If one were to do so, what would be the source of
 the increase in liquidity? Because there is no such source, the incremental liquidity is usually

 illusory, fleeting and unreliable, and it works (like a Ponzi scheme) until markets freeze up and
 the promise of liquidity is tested in tough times.

 Some hedge funds provided an example in the last crisis. They raised capital with which to buy
 assets of uncertain liquidity, sometimes using leverage, and they promised investors the ability to
 withdraw their money quarterly or annually. But when the end of 2008 rolled around, the desire
 of LPs for liquidity overwhelmed the capacity of the marketplace to absorb the assets that were
 for sale (or perhaps the GPs wisely refused to sell because a fair price couldn't be obtained).
 When that occurred, the funds told LPs they couldn't have the liquidity they'd been promised.
 Illiquid assets went into locked-up "side pockets," and "gates" came down delaying the effective
 dates of withdrawals. These little-known provisions gave LPs an unpleasant surprise,
 demonstrating that in a crisis, the promise of withdrawal from a vehicle holding illiquid
 assets can easily turn out to be too good to be true.

 People often think about liquidity constraints as relating to specific assets; they don't necessarily
 think about the knock-on effects of illiquidity from asset to asset and market to market. For
 example, in the crisis, institutional investors had to sell liquid assets at steep discounts and
 redeem from the most liquid hedge funds because of the heavy allocations to illiquid strategies
 and gated funds elsewhere in their portfolios. The resulting elevated supply of assets for sale
 from these funds reduced the liquidity for sellers in those markets and put downward pressure on
 assets that shouldn't have been so affected.

 Specific investor actions can have a dramatic impact in illiquid markets. For example, the price
 of an illiquid asset can rise simply because one buyer is buying, in which case selling the asset
 becomes very easy. When that buyer stops buying, however, the market can quickly reset to
 much lower levels in terms of both price and the liquidity enjoyed by sellers (and it can overshoot
 in the other direction if the buyer decides to sell what he's bought).

 In assessing an asset's liquidity, one should think about the other people who hold it. Are they all
 the same type of investor, and thus likely to react the same to a given story on Bloomberg? Do
 many of them own it in funds whose investors have the right to make quick withdrawals? And, in
 particular, are they highly levered and subject to potential margin calls? The more ownership is
 concentrated in the hands of investors who could become motivated to sell en masse, the faster
 liquidity can disappear.

 Taking on large amounts of illiquidity is neither a winning nor a losing strategy per se. Like
 any other form of risk, it's advantageous to bear illiquidity when the incremental return for doing
 so is high, but a bad idea when it's not. And, needless to say, the liquidity premium is neither
 always there nor always generous.

 In my view, some endowments emulated Yale to excess in the years before the crisis, taking on
 too much illiquidity in the belief that (a) as ultra-long-term investors they could bear it and (b)
 they were sure to be well paid for doing so. But risk premiums arise from risk aversion,
 meaning they may not exist when investors are risk-tolerant. The willing acceptance of
 illiquidity in the early to mid-2000s caused the premium for bearing it to be inadequate, and
 investors who did so were penalized, not rewarded.

 On the other hand, at the right time, investors can make tremendous amounts of money simply by
 being willing to supply liquidity (or accept illiquidity). When everyone else is selling in panic or

 sitting frozen on the sideline, refusing to buy, cash can be king. Often when a crash follows a
 bubble-driven run-up, most people are short of cash (and/or the willingness to spend it).

 But it may not be a good idea to always sit with a large amount of cash so as to be able to provide
 liquidity and scoop up bargains in a once-a-decade crash. This may equate to sub-optimizing. It
 would have paid off in 1990-91, 2001-02 and 2008-09, but what about the other 19 years in the
 last 25?

 A high degree of concern over illiquidity can push investors to avoid it to excess. For
 example, institutions whose realities could permit a long-term investment approach sometimes
 decide to invest only in things they can get out of quickly. Is this prudence, or merely sub-
 optimizing? Is it done in response to a threat that has a reasonable likelihood of materializing, or
 to a crisis while it is fresh in memory ("fighting the last war")? Is it realistic, or the result of an
 irrational desire to be able to turn the whole portfolio into cash in short order? Or is it done in
 order to always be able to comply with a sell order from the boss or the investment committee?
 Liquidity is a good thing (everything else being equal). But is it smart to require that a
 portfolio be able to provide more liquidity than is ever likely to be called on? Let's
 remember that liquidity isn't free. There's usually a cost, and it comes in the form of
 return forgone.

 I think the best way to deal with the issue of liquidity is to think of the portfolio in terms of layers
 ranging from highly liquid to totally illiquid. The appropriate size for each layer at a given point
 in time is a function of each investor's specific situation, as well as the position of the market in
 its cycle.

 In sizing those layers, it's clear that no investor should shoulder more illiquidity than its realities
 permit, as happened in 2008 with serious consequences for some endowments. Portfolios may be
 required to (a) meet their owners' needs for current cash with which to operate, (b) fund capital
 drawdowns at a time when lock-up funds aren't making distributions, or (c) enable the owners to
 avoid having to sell assets at depressed prices. Thus portfolio liquidity should be set so these
 needs can be met in bad times.

 But how bad is bad? Should the portfolio have to respond to the last bad year, the average of
 the last five bad years, the worst year ever . . . or something worse? These decisions require
 judgment.

 Finally, excessive liquidity can do more harm than good, and investors can be better off if they're
 able to trade less rather than more. My son Andrew makes a number of excellent points on
 the theme that liquidity is a good thing, but not necessarily all good:

 o The siren song of liquidity can convince investors to try their hand as traders. The result can
 be increases in (a) emphasis on short-term considerations relative to long-term ones, (b)
 transaction costs and taxes, and (c) exposure to negative surprises when the liquidity they've
 been enjoying and counting on disappears.

 o Liquidity can cause you to lower the bar for investments. If you're thinking about making an
 investment you know you won't be able to exit for years, you'll probably do thorough due
 diligence, make conservative assumptions and apply skepticism, etc. But when you have
 something that appears very liquid, you may take a position casually, with little work or

 conviction, under the assumption that it would be easy and cheap to get out. Here's a great
 quote on the subject from Warren Buffett:

 If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even think about owning
 it for ten minutes. Put together a portfolio of companies whose aggregate
 earnings march upward over the years, and so also will the portfolio's market
 value.

 o Certainly owners of companies wouldn't (and couldn't) trade in and out of them every day. If
 you intend to invest in businesses based on their fundamentals - rather than trading based on
 short-term market dynamics - it's critical to think and act like a long-term owner.

 o When you find an investment with the potential to compound over a long period of time, one
 of the hardest things is to be patient and maintain your position as long as doing so is
 warranted on the basis of the prospective return and risk. Investors can easily be moved to
 sell by news, emotion, the fact that they've made a lot of money to date, or the excitement of
 a new, seemingly more promising idea. When you look at the chart for something that's
 gone up and to the right for 20 years, think about all the times a holder would have had
 to convince himself not to sell. An abundance of liquidity can be a handicap in this regard.
 Here's some more good advice from Warren: "If you can enjoy Saturdays and Sundays
 without looking at stock prices, give it a try on weekdays." Looking less often would
 improve most investors' results.

 I have particularly strong feelings about the insistence that 401(k) retirement accounts include
 only investment choices that provide daily pricing and liquidity. I've heard from Oaktree pension
 clients about employees who frequently trade their 401(k) accounts. It can't be a good thing for
 these portfolios to be constantly rejiggered. It's hard enough to make an occasional well-
 reasoned long-term decision, but much harder to make a large number of correct short-
 term decisions. Rather than ensuring daily liquidity, the people in charge could help plan
 participants by limiting them to annual changes at most.

So liquidity - like most other things in the investment world - is multi-faceted and complex, not
simple. There are a lot of considerations to be taken into account, and certainly no simple formula
for doing so. Like everything else in investing, there's no surefire way to manage the issue of
liquidity in the absence of superior insight.

Influences on Liquidity Today

Many factors cause the availability of liquidity to change over time. The biggest factor lately in some of
our credit markets has been the growth of demand through mutual funds and ETFs, or Exchange-Traded
Funds. While there's been no real mania for stocks, the ultra-low level of interest rates has driven many
retail investors (who in the past may have invested in Treasurys and money market funds) to credit
vehicles instead.

Witness, for example, the fact that senior loan mutual funds saw net inflows of capital for 95 straight
weeks leading up to April 2014. That's almost two solid years without a break. You might expect that to
cause an imbalance of demand over supply, rendering buyers unable to get their fill. But Wall Street
abhors a vacuum, and the banks were able to round up enough issuers to satisfy the buyers. And with
large numbers of retail buyers on one side and obliging issuers on the other, the market certainly

looked liquid. But when mutual fund inflows turned into outflows in the second half of 2014, the supply
of loans put up for sale to meet redemptions added to the supply of loans issued by companies seeking
capital. Thus the total supply of loans for sale exceeded the demand, causing prices to decline and the
market to become less liquid for holders.

Investors in mutual funds think of them as highly liquid. "You can get out any day," the ads say, "Just
call the 800 number." But withdrawing from a mutual fund (if there isn't adequate cash in the fund to
meet the redemption) is equivalent to requiring the portfolio manager to enter a "market held" order for
some of the securities in the fund's portfolio: sell regardless of price. And the depressed price that results
from the involuntary sale of securities is the same price that's paid to the redeeming fund investor.

That's because the mutual fund investor may enter his redemption order at 6:00 p.m. on Monday or 10:00
a.m. on Tuesday, but the price he gets will be determined in an NAV calculation after the close of trading
Tuesday. He doesn't get the price that prevailed before the sell order occasioned by his redemption was
entered. Thus a mutual fund may be "highly liquid," but that's not the same as "100% liquid," and it's
certainly not more liquid than the assets in its portfolio.

The other source of increasing demand for securities of late has been ETFs. ETF-like vehicles,
sometimes known as "tracking shares," began to appear in the early 1990s, and they proliferated
significantly after 2000. According to Wikipedia, "As of January 2014, there were over 1,500 ETFs
traded in the U.S., with over $1.7 trillion in assets." (Several years ago I cited Wikipedia in a memo, and
Oaktree co-founder Richard Masson - a stickler for correctness - told me in no uncertain terms that it
wasn't a respectable source. I think things have changed enough since then, Richard: I'm citing it!)

ETF's have become popular because they're generally believed to be "better than mutual funds," in
that they're traded all day. Thus an ETF investor can get in or out anytime during trading hours,
whereas with mutual funds he has to wait for a pricing at the close of business. "If you're considering
investing," the pitch goes, "why do so through a vehicle that can require you to wait hours to cash out?"
But do the investors in ETFs wonder about the source of their liquidity?

Here's what Wikipedia has to say about the liquidity of ETFs:

 An ETF combines the valuation feature of a mutual fund or unit investment trust, which
 can be bought or sold at the end of each trading day for its net asset value, with the
 tradability feature of a closed-end fund, which trades throughout the trading day at
 prices that may be more or less than its net asset value. . . .

Consider the possibility that many of the holders of an ETF become highly motivated to either buy or sell.
Their actions theoretically could cause the trading price of the ETF to diverge from the value of the
securities in the underlying portfolio. To minimize that risk, the creators of ETFs established a
mechanism through which financial institutions can trade in wholesale quantities of "creation units" of the
fund at NAV.

 The ability to purchase and redeem creation units gives ETFs an arbitrage mechanism
 intended to minimize the potential deviation between the market price and the net asset
 value of ETF shares. Existing ETFs have transparent portfolios, so institutional
 investors will know exactly what portfolio assets they must assemble if they wish to
 purchase a creation unit, and the exchange disseminates the updated net asset value of
 the shares throughout the trading day, typically at 15-second intervals.

 If there is strong investor demand for an ETF, its share price will temporarily rise above
 its net asset value per share, giving arbitrageurs an incentive to purchase additional
 creation units from the ETF and sell the component ETF shares in the open market.
 The additional supply of ETF shares reduces the market price per share, generally
 eliminating the premium over net asset value. A similar process applies when there is
 weak demand for an ETF: its shares trade at a discount from net asset value.

What would happen, for example, if a large number of holders decided to sell a high yield bond ETF all at
once? In theory, the ETF can always be sold. Buyers may be scarce, but there should be some price at
which one will materialize. Of course, the price that buyer will pay might represent a discount from the
NAV of the underlying bonds. In that case, a bank should be willing to buy the creation units at that
discount from NAV and short the underlying bonds at the prices used to calculate the NAV, earning an
arbitrage profit and causing the gap to close. But then we're back to wondering about whether there will
be a buyer for the bonds the bank wants to short, and at what price. Thus we can't get away from
depending on the liquidity of the underlying high yield bonds. The ETF can't be more liquid than
the underlying, and we know the underlying can become highly illiquid.

This whole discussion calls to mind a Wall Street Wonder called "auction rate securities." They were
popular ten years ago, but today they're only a footnote to financial history. In brief, auction rate
securities were developed to satisfy the desire of borrowers for long-term financing at the lower interest
rates on short-term debt. The securities were described as safe and liquid because Dutch auctions would
be held every week or month, resetting the yield on the securities to contemporary levels and thereby
ensuring a price near par, as well as plentiful liquidity. Certainly there would always be some yield
capable of enticing investors to buy at par. Thus the securities would be free from the risks associated
with long-term debt. That's what should have happened. Here's what Wikipedia says did happen:

 Beginning on Thursday, February 7, 2008, auctions for these securities began to fail
 when investors declined to bid on the securities. The four largest investment banks who
 make a market in these securities (Citigroup, UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Merrill
 Lynch) declined to act as bidders of last resort, as they had in the past. This was a result
 of the scope and size of the market failure, combined with the firms' needs to protect their
 capital during the 2008 financial crisis. (Emphasis added)

 On February 13, 2008, 80% of auctions failed. On February 20, 62% failed (395 out of
 641 auctions) . . . .

When the auctions failed, auction rate securities became frozen. Holders saw large markdowns and for
years were unable to obtain liquidity. Eventually, the investment banks that had issued the securities
bought many of them back at par, under threat of investigation by U.S. attorneys general. And one more
"miracle" disappeared from the scene.

Lastly on the subject of ETFs, a senior loan ETF can be sold for settlement in three days, whereas if there
are tenders of creation units, sales of loans to raise the funds with which to pay for those units may
require a week or considerably more to settle. What are the implications of such a mismatch?

So-called "liquid alternatives" or "liquid alts" are another recent innovation. They're supposed to deliver
performance comparable to other alternative investments without the illiquidity they entail. To me it
sounds like just one more promise of something for nothing. How many portfolio managers are smart
enough, for example, to deliver the alpha of a well-managed hedge fund without accepting the illiquidity
that the clever manager of that hedge fund feels he has no choice but to bear?

Financial innovations created in good times often fool people into thinking a silver bullet has been
invented that offers a better deal than traditional investments. (By "traditional" I mean
investments that are acknowledged to entail increased risk as the price for targeting increased
return . . . not the "miracles" where increased return comes gratis.) Many recent innovations have
promised high liquidity from low-liquidity assets. As I said on page three, however, no investment
vehicle should promise more liquidity than is afforded by its underlying assets. Do these recent
promises represent real improvements, or merely the seeds for subsequent disappointment?

Auction rate securities were a way to buy long-term debt securities without interest-rate risk and
illiquidity. Likewise, ETFs offer a liquid way to invest in potentially illiquid markets. But these
instruments rely for their desirable outcomes on the assumption that other parties will do what they
"should" do. Over the course of my career I've seen many instances when market participants failed to
do what they were supposed to do. The related financial innovations often remind me of my father's
story about the habitual gambler who finally found a sure thing: a race with only one horse. He bet all his
money, but halfway around the track the horse jumped over the fence and ran away. Will ETFs prove
liquid in the next crisis? And what impact will mass sales of ETFs have on the prices of underlying
assets? We'll find out.

Finally under the heading of recent developments, I want to mention the Volcker Rule, which arose from
a suggestion from former Fed chairman Paul Volcker. The main reason for the 2008 government bailouts
of systemically important banks was the losses the banks had suffered thanks to unsuccessful investments
made with their proprietary capital in mortgage backed securities and other levered assets. When these
collapsed, the banks lost a great deal of their capital, such that they required capital injections only the
government could or would make.

In response to that experience, legislators decided to incorporate the Volcker Rule into the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the main piece of regulation to emerge after the crisis.
Although there has been much back-and-forth regarding its modification and enactment, the main thrust
of the Volcker Rule is to prevent banks from making speculative investments that aren't related to their
activities on behalf of clients; in other words, to impose a general ban on proprietary trading.

Often during crises, investors take to the sidelines, such that there are no buyers for the assets that come
up for sale. Liquidity dries up, and prices plummet. In the past, banks have stepped forward, risking their
proprietary capital in pursuit of profit. Many times in our experience, banks have competed strongly
against us to buy distressed debt, thereby supplying liquidity to the market. Although the eventual impact
of the Volcker Rule is unknown, any diminution of the banks' likelihood of engaging in proprietary
buying during crises suggests a significant reduction in liquidity just when it may be needed most.

For the last few years I've been expressing my view that (a) investors - driven by central bank-mandated
interest rates near zero - have been moving into riskier investments in pursuit of higher returns and (b) in
taking that step they've often ignored the need for caution or been ignorant as to how to achieve it. I
believe that as an important part of this behavior, those investors have extrapolated the high level
of liquidity they've witnessed in the last five years, failing to understand its transitory nature.

The impact on liquidity of ETFs, liquid alternatives and the Volcker Rule has yet to be tested in
tough times. We'll see what happens in the next serious downturn.

 * * *

The bottom line is unambiguous. Liquidity can be transient and paradoxical. It's plentiful when
you don't care about it and scarce when you need it most. Given the way it waxes and wanes, it's
dangerous to assume the liquidity that's available in good times will be there when the tide goes out.

What can an investor do about this unreliability? The best preparation for bouts of illiquidity is:

 buying assets, hopefully at prices below durable intrinsic values, that can be held for a long
 time - in the case of debt, to its maturity - even if prices fall or price discovery ceases to
 take place, and
 making sure that investment vehicle structures, leverage arrangements (if any),
 manager/client relationships and performance expectations will permit a long-term
 approach to investing.

These are the things we try to do.

And the worst defenses against illiquidity - or, better said, the approaches that make you most dependent
on the availability of liquidity - are (a) employing trading strategies under which you buy things because
of how you think they'll perform in the short run, not what they'll be worth in the long run, (b) being
focused on what the market says your assets are worth, not what your analysis shows them to be worth,
and (c) buying with leverage that exposes you to the risk of a margin call in a declining market.

One of the great advantages of investing in performing debt is that if our credit judgments are correct, the
return will come from our contractual relationship with the issuers - from the interest and principal
they've promised to pay us - not the operation of the market. At Oaktree, trading is what we do to
implement portfolio managers' long-term investment decisions. We generally consider it a cost of
doing business, not something we engage in to make money.

There are two benefits to this approach:

 we aren't highly reliant on liquidity for success, and
 rather than be weakened in times of illiquidity, we can profit from crises by investing more - at
 lower prices - when liquidity is scarce.

We're not immune to occasional periods of illiquidity; our holdings become just as hard to sell as
anyone else's. But with the proper structure and approach, it's possible to turn such periods to our
advantage rather than just endure them.

 * * *

I started this memo by saying liquidity might not be a profound topic. But when I ran a draft by our CEO
Jay Wintrob, who came to us in November from AIG, he took issue. I'll give him the last word:

 In September 2008, AIG experienced serious liquidity issues (despite its $1 trillion
 balance sheet) when it couldn't post $20-25 billion of liquid collateral related to credit
 default swap contracts written by one of its subsidiaries. The U.S. government stepped
 in

 as a result, lending support that eventually reached $182.3 billion, massively diluting
 AIG shareholders in the process. When you can't meet a margin call because you
 have insufficient liquidity, that's profound.


Memo: Risk Revisited Again.

The operators of racetracks take a dim view of bettors who engage in "past-posting": trying to get a bet
down after the race is over (and the horses are "past the post"). In that vein, it's been my practice not to
rewrite old memos as new developments arise or new ideas strike me. However, while preparing "Risk
Revisited" of September 2014 for inclusion in a compilation of my memos, I thought of a number of ways
in which it could be made better. And since it was my original intention to have it contain everything I
know about risk, I've decided to incorporate them. To make it clear which sections are new, I've put
them in italics.

In April 2014, I had good results with Dare to Be Great II, starting from the base established in an earlier
memo (Dare to Be Great, September 2006) and adding new thoughts that had occurred to me in the
intervening years. Also in 2006 I wrote Risk, my first memo devoted entirely to this key subject. My
thinking continued to develop, causing me to dedicate three chapters to risk among the twenty in my book
The Most Important Thing. This memo adds to what I've previously written on the topic.

What Risk Really Means

In the 2006 memo and in the book, I argued against the purported identity between volatility and risk.
Volatility is the academic's choice for defining and measuring risk. I think this is the case largely
because volatility is quantifiable and thus usable in the calculations and models of modern finance theory.
In the book I called it "machinable," and there is no substitute for the purposes of the calculations.

However, while volatility is quantifiable and machinable - and can be an indicator or symptom of
riskiness and even a specific form of risk - I think it falls far short as "the" definition of investment risk.
In thinking about risk, we want to identify the thing that investors worry about and thus demand
compensation for bearing. I don't think most investors fear volatility. In fact, I've never heard anyone
say, "The prospective return isn't high enough to warrant bearing all that volatility." What they fear is
the possibility of permanent loss.

Permanent loss is very different from volatility or fluctuation. A downward fluctuation - which by
definition is temporary - doesn't present a big problem if the investor is able to hold on and come out the
other side. A permanent loss - from which there won't be a rebound - can occur for either of two
reasons: (a) an otherwise-temporary dip is locked in when the investor sells during a downswing -
whether because of a loss of conviction; requirements stemming from his timeframe; financial exigency;
or emotional pressures, or (b) the investment itself is unable to recover for fundamental reasons. We can
ride out volatility, but we never get a chance to undo a permanent loss.

Of course, the problem with defining risk as the possibility of permanent loss is that it lacks the very thing
volatility offers: quantifiability. The probability of loss is no more measurable than the probability of
rain. It can be modeled, and it can be estimated (and by experts pretty well), but it cannot be known.

In Dare to Be Great II, I described the time I spent advising a sovereign wealth fund about how to
organize for the next thirty years. My presentation was built significantly around my conviction that risk

can't be quantified a priori. Another of their advisors, a professor from a business school north of New
York, insisted it can. This is something I prefer not to debate, especially with people who're sure they
have the answer but haven't bet much money on it.

One of the things the professor was sure could be quantified was the maximum a portfolio could fall
under adverse circumstances. But how can this be so if we don't know how adverse circumstances can be
or how they will influence returns? We might say "the market probably won't fall more than x% as long
as things aren't worse than y and z," but how can an absolute limit be specified? I wonder if the professor
had anticipated that the S&P 500 could fall 57% in the global crisis.

While writing the original memo on risk in 2006, an important thought came to me for the first time.
Forget about a priori; if you define risk as anything other than volatility, it can't be measured even after
the fact. If you buy something for $10 and sell it a year later for $20, was it risky or not? The novice
would say the profit proves it was safe, while the academic would say it was clearly risky, since the only
way to make 100% in a year is by taking a lot of risk. I'd say it might have been a brilliant, safe
investment that was sure to double or a risky dart throw that got lucky.

If you make an investment in 2012, you'll know in 2014 whether you lost money (and how much), but
you won't know whether it was a risky investment - that is, what the probability of loss was at the time
you made it. To continue the analogy, it may rain tomorrow, or it may not, but nothing that happens
tomorrow will tell you what the probability of rain was as of today. And the risk of rain is a very
good analogue (although I'm sure not perfect) for the risk of loss.

People Smarter Than Me

Peter Bernstein, who passed away in 2009, was one of the smartest people I ever met: a real investment
sage. He combined a brilliant and learned mind, great common sense, and the ability to express himself
with incredible clarity. I found a great deal of inspiration in his newsletter "Economics and Portfolio
Strategy," in his book "Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk," and in our correspondence.

One of the newsletter's best issues, from June 2007, was titled "Can We Measure Risk with a Number?"
It provided Peter's answer to that question, buttressed by the words of a number of great thinkers. It's so
good that I want to share parts here (with all emphasis added but the first). This memo is greatly
enhanced by their inclusion:

 In life - and in investing - the biggest risks cannot be reduced to a hard number. As Bill
 Sharpe put it to me recently, "It's dangerous, at least in general, to think of risk as a
 number . . . . The problem we face is that there are many scenarios that can unfold in the
 future. . . ." John Maynard Keynes, [in the 1920s], had this to say: "There is little
 likelihood of our discovering a method of recognizing particular probabilities, without
 any assistance whatever from intuition or direct judgment. . . . A proposition is not
 probable because we think it so."

 Consider the following story. In 1703, the great Swiss mathematician Jacob Bernoulli
 wrote Leibniz he thought it strange that we knew the odds of throwing a seven instead of
 an eight with dice, but we do not know the probability that a man of twenty will outlive a
 man of sixty. He proposed following a large number of pairs of men to see whether he
 could arrive at the probability that a man of twenty will outlive a man of sixty.
 Leibniz was unimpressed. "Nature has established patterns originating in the return of
 events, but only for the most part. . . . No matter how many experiments . . . you have

 conducted, you have not thereby imposed a limit on the nature of events so that in the
 future they would not vary." Leibniz had written to Bernoulli in Latin, as was customary
 for exchanges between intellectuals in those days, but he put "but only for the most part"
 in Greek, to give it maximum emphasis. If it were "always," there would be no
 uncertainty, no risk.

 "But only for the most part" is what risk is all about: uncertainty. The key hazard of
 quantitative risk management is the illusion of control the models and their results impart
 to us. No model has an R2 of 1.000. Even if you have a so-called statistically significant
 outcome, which is 95% certain - and that is surely "for the most part" - 95% still leaves
 5% you know nothing about. The devil is in the residuals, as all of us have discovered to
 our sorrow.

 I have pursued this discussion of the nature of risk, and our inability to accurately
 measure risk, because I think it sheds important light on how we should think about the
 current environment, where the economic risks appear to be moderate and manageable
 and where the environment itself seems to have so many self-reinforcing elements. I
 believe we have to look at the environment in qualitative terms, not quantitative terms.
 Only then can we develop an answer to the question of whether, in today's global
 economy, we have ended "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune," as so many
 appear to believe. [Bernstein demonstrated considerable foresight in writing this
 paragraph and the next four in the lead-up to the global financial crisis.]

 Can we sustain the low-risk character of the environment when it leads many investors
 to take high risks and to overvalue risky assets in search for higher returns? . . . The
 more risk we take because we believe the environment is low-risk in character, the less
 the environment continues to be low-risk in character.

 . . . The more we emphasize the low risks in the environment, the more we point out and
 explain its features, and the more we believe we understand what is going on - unique as
 this environment may be - the weaker our normal and rational inclination to risk
 aversion becomes and the more our actions alter the character of the environment.

 The economist Hyman Minsky has reminded us, "Each state nurtures forces that lead to
 its own destruction." All of history testifies to the truth of this observation. Greater
 liquidity [by which Bernstein meant greater availability of funds] leads firms to borrow
 more than before. But higher levels of debt mean increasing vulnerability to adversity
 and negative shocks in an ever-changing world. For these reasons, as Minsky put it,
 stability leads inevitably to instability. . . .

 Even places that were once banana-republics, like Argentina and Brazil, are issuing
 long-term bonds and even issuing bonds denominated in foreign currencies. The
 eagerness to lend in so many different ways in so many different markets is a potent
 symptom of confidence in the underlying stability of the global system. . . .

 Shocks and surprises are what the history of investment is all about. Here is what G. K.
 Chesterton had to say on this matter . . . :

 The real trouble with this world of ours is not that it is an unreasonable
 world, nor even that it is a reasonable one. The commonest kind of
 trouble is that it is nearly reasonable, but not quite. Life is not an

 illogicality; yet it is a trap for logicians. It looks just a little more
 mathematical and regular than it is; its exactitude is obvious, but its
 inexactitude is hidden; its wildness lies in wait.

Beginning on page 9, you'll find a section borrowed from a memo I wrote back in 2007. Its first bullet
point starts off as follows: "Risk exists only in the future. . . ." That notion holds a good part of the key to
understanding investment risk. If you accept that the underlying processes affecting economics,
business and market psychology are less than 100% dependable, as seems obvious, then it follows that
the future isn't knowable. In that case, risk can be nothing more than the subject of estimation -
Keynes's "intuition or direct judgment" (see page 2) - and certainly not reliably quantified.

The Unknowable Future

It seems most people in the prediction business think the future is knowable, and all they have to
do is be among the ones who know it. Alternatively, they may understand (consciously or
unconsciously) that it's not knowable but believe they have to act as if it is in order to make a
living as an economist or investment manager.

On the other hand, I'm solidly convinced the future isn't knowable. I side with John Kenneth
Galbraith who said, "We have two classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who
don't know they don't know." There are several reasons for this inability to predict:

 We're well aware of many factors that can influence future events, such as governmental
 actions, individuals' spending decisions and changes in commodity prices. But these
 things are hard to predict, and I doubt anyone is capable of taking all of them into account
 at once. (People have suggested a parallel between this categorization and that of Donald
 Rumsfeld, who might have called these things "known unknowns": the things we know
 we don't know.)

 The future can also be influenced by events that aren't on anyone's radar today, such as
 calamities - natural or man-made - that can have great impact. The 9/11 attacks and the
 Fukushima disaster are two examples of things no one knew to think about. (These
 would be "unknown unknowns": the things we don't know we don't know.)

 There's far too much randomness at work in the world for future events to be predictable.
 As 2014 began, forecasters were sure the U.S. economy was gaining steam, but they were
 confounded when record cold weather caused GDP to fall 2.9% in the first quarter.

 And importantly, the connections between contributing influences and future outcomes
 are far too imprecise and variable for the results to be dependable.

That last point deserves discussion. Physics is a science, and for that reason an electrical engineer
can guarantee you that if you flip a switch over here, a light will go on over there . . . every time.
But there's good reason why economics is called "the dismal science," and in fact it isn't much of
a science at all. In just the last few years we've had opportunity to see - contrary to nearly
unanimous expectations - that interest rates near zero can fail to produce a strong rebound in
GDP, and that a reduction of bond buying on the part of the Fed can fail to bring on higher
interest rates. In economics and investments, because of the key role played by human behavior,
you just can't say for sure that "if A, then B," as you can in real science. The weakness of the

connection between cause and effect makes outcomes uncertain. In other words, it introduces
risk.

Given the near-infinite number of factors that influence developments, the great deal of
randomness present, and the weakness of the linkages, it's my solid belief that future events cannot
be predicted with any consistency. In particular, predictions of important divergences from trends and
norms can't be made with anything approaching the accuracy required for them to be helpful.

Coping with the Unknowable Future

Here's the essential conundrum: investing requires us to decide how to position a portfolio for
future developments, but the future isn't knowable.

Taken to slightly greater detail:

 Investing requires the taking of positions that will be affected by future developments.
 The existence of negative possibilities surrounding those future developments presents risk.
 Intelligent investors pursue prospective returns that they think compensate them for bearing the
 risk of negative future developments.
 But future developments are unpredictable.

How can investors deal with the limitations on their ability to know the future? The answer lies in the
fact that not being able to know the future doesn't mean we can't deal with it. It's one thing to know
what's going to happen and something very different to have a feeling for the range of possible outcomes
and the likelihood of each one happening. Saying we can't do the former doesn't mean we can't do the
latter.

The information we're able to estimate - the list of events that might happen and how likely each one is -
can be used to construct a probability distribution. Key point number one in this memo is that the
future should be viewed not as a fixed outcome that's destined to happen and capable of being
predicted, but as a range of possibilities and, hopefully on the basis of insight into their respective
likelihoods, as a probability distribution.

Since the future isn't fixed and future events can't be predicted, risk cannot be quantified with any
precision. I made the point in Risk, and I want to emphasize it here, that risk estimation has to be the
province of experienced experts, and their work product will by necessity be subjective, imprecise, and
more qualitative than quantitative (even if it's expressed in numbers).

There's little I believe in more than Albert Einstein's observation: "Not everything that counts can be
counted, and not everything that can be counted counts." I'd rather have an order-of-magnitude
approximation of risk from an expert than a precise figure from a highly educated statistician who knows
less about the underlying investments. British philosopher and logician Carveth Read put it this way: "It
is better to be vaguely right than exactly wrong."

By the way, in my personal life I tend to incorporate another of Einstein's comments: "I never think of the
future - it comes soon enough." We can't take that approach as investors, however. We have to think
about the future. We just shouldn't accord too much significance to our opinions.

We can't know what will happen. We can know something about the possible outcomes (and how
likely they are). People who have more insight into these things than others are likely to make
superior investors. As I said in the last paragraph of The Most Important Thing:

 Only investors with unusual insight can regularly divine the probability distribution that
 governs future events and sense when the potential returns compensate for the risks that
 lurk in the distribution's negative left-hand tail.

In other words, in order to achieve superior results, an investor must be able - with some regularity
- to find asymmetries: instances when the upside potential exceeds the downside risk. That's what
successful investing is all about.

Thinking in Terms of Diverse Outcomes

It's the indeterminate nature of future events that creates investment risk. It goes without saying that if
we knew everything that was going to happen, there wouldn't be any risk.

The return on a stock will be a function of the relationship between the price today and the cash flows
(income and sale proceeds) it will produce in the future. The future cash flows, in turn, will be a function
of the fundamental performance of the company and the way its stock is priced given that performance.
We invest on the basis of expectations regarding these things. It's tautological to say that if the
company's earnings and the valuation of those earnings meet our targets, the return will be as expected.
The risk in the investment therefore comes from the possibility that one or both will come in lower than
we think.

To oversimplify, investors in a given company may have an expectation that if A happens, that'll make B
happen, and if C and D also happen, then the result will be E. Factor A may be the pace at which a new
product finds an audience. That will determine factor B, the growth of sales. If A is positive, B should be
positive. Then if C (the cost of raw materials) is on target, earnings should grow as expected, and if D
(investors' valuation of the earnings) also meets expectations, the result should be a rising share price,
giving us the return we seek (E).

We may have a sense for the probability distributions governing future developments, and thus a feeling
for the likely outcome regarding each of developments A through E. The problem is that for each of
these, there can be lots of outcomes other than the ones we consider most likely. The possibility of less-
good outcomes is the source of risk. That leads me to key point number two, as expressed by Elroy
Dimson, a professor at the London Business School: "Risk means more things can happen than will
happen." This brief, pithy sentence contains a great deal of wisdom.

People who rely heavily on forecasts seem to think there's only one possibility, meaning risk can be
eliminated if they just figure out which one it is. The rest of us know many possibilities exist today, and
it's not knowable which of them will occur. Further, things are subject to change, meaning there will be
new possibilities tomorrow. This uncertainty as to which of the possibilities will occur is the source
of risk in investing.

Even a Probability Distribution Isn't Enough

I've stressed the importance of viewing the future as a probability distribution rather than a single
predetermined outcome. It's still essential to bear in mind key point number three: Knowing the

probabilities doesn't mean you know what's going to happen. For example, all good backgammon
players know the probabilities governing throws of two dice. They know there are 36 possible outcomes,
and that six of them add up to the number seven (1-6, 2-5, 3-4, 4-3, 5-2 and 6-1). Thus the chance of
throwing a seven on any toss is 6 in 36, or 16.7%. There's absolutely no doubt about that. But even
though we know the probability of each number, we're far from knowing what number will come up on a
given roll.

Backgammon players are usually quite happy to make a move that will enable them to win unless the
opponent rolls twelve, since only one combination of the dice will produce it: 6-6. The probability of
rolling twelve is thus only 1 in 36, or less than 3%. But twelve does come up from time to time, and the
people it turns into losers end up complaining about having done the "right" thing but lost. As my friend
Bruce Newberg says, "There's a big difference between probability and outcome." Unlikely things
happen - and likely things fail to happen - all the time. Probabilities are likelihoods and very far from
certainties.

It's true with dice, and it's true in investing . . . and not a bad start toward conveying the essence of risk.
Think again about the quote above from Elroy Dimson: "Risk means more things can happen than will
happen." I find it particularly helpful to invert Dimson's observation for key point number four:
Even though many things can happen, only one will.

In Dare to Be Great II, I discussed the fact that economic decisions are usually best made on the basis of
"expected value": you multiply each potential outcome by its probability, sum the results, and select the
path with the highest total. But while expected value represents the probability-weighted average of all
possible outcomes, we can be certain it will not be the outcome (unless by coincidence it's one of the
possibilities). Clearly just one of the many things that can happen will happen - not the average of all of
them. And if some of the paths under consideration include individual outcomes that are absolutely
unacceptable, we might not be able to choose on the basis of the highest expected value. We may have to
shun the quantitatively optimal path in order to avoid the possibility of an extreme negative outcome. I
always say I have no interest in being a skydiver who's successful 95% of the time.

Investment performance (like life in general) is a lot like choosing a lottery winner by pulling one
ticket from a bowlful. The process through which the winning ticket is chosen can be influenced by
physical processes, and also by randomness. But it never amounts to anything but one ticket picked from
among many. Superior investors have a better sense for what's in the bowl, and thus for whether
it's worth buying a ticket in a lottery. But even they don't know for sure which one will be chosen.
Lesser investors have less of a sense for the probability distribution and for whether the likelihood of
winning the prize compensates for the risk that the cost of the ticket will be lost.

Risk and Return

Both in the 2006 memo on risk and in my book, I showed two graphics that together make clear the
nature of investment risk. People have told me they're the best thing in the book, and since readers of this
memo might have not seen the old one or read the book, I'm going to repeat them here.

The first one below shows the relationship between risk and return as it is conventionally represented.
The line slopes upward to the right, meaning the two are "positively correlated": as risk increases, return
increases.

 Return

 Risk

In both the old memo and the book, I went to great lengths to clarify what this is often - but erroneously -
taken to mean. We hear it all the time: "Riskier investments produce higher returns" and "If you want to
make more money, take more risk."

Both of these formulations are terrible. In brief, if riskier investments could be counted on to produce
higher returns, they wouldn't be riskier. Misplaced reliance on the benefits of risk bearing has led
investors to some very unpleasant surprises.

However, there's another, better way to describe this relationship: "Investments that seem riskier have to
appear likely to deliver higher returns, or else people won't make them." This makes perfect sense. If the
market is rational, the price of a seemingly risky asset will be set low enough that the reward for holding
it appears adequate to compensate for the risk present. But note the word "appear." We're talking about
investors' opinions regarding future return, not facts. Risky investments are - by definition - far from
certain to deliver on their promise of high returns. For that reason, I think the graphic below (with the
probability distributions redrawn from those of the 2014 version of this memo) does a much better job of
portraying reality:

 Return

 Risk

Here the underlying relationship between risk and return reflects the same positive general tendency as
the first graphic, but the result of each investment is shown as a range of possibilities, not the single
outcome suggested by the upward-sloping line. At each point along the horizontal risk axis, an
investment's prospective return is shown as a bell-shaped probability distribution turned on its side.

The conclusions are obvious from inspection. As you move to the right, increasing the risk:

 the expected return increases (as with the traditional graphic),
 the range of possible outcomes becomes wider, and
 the less-good outcomes become worse.

This is the essence of investment risk. Riskier investments are ones where the investor is less secure
regarding the eventual outcome and faces the possibility of faring worse than those who stick to
safer investments, and even of losing money. These investments are undertaken because the expected
return is higher. But things may happen other than that which is hoped for. Some of the possibilities are
superior to the expected return, but others are decidedly unattractive.

The first graph's upward-sloping line indicates the underlying directionality of the risk/return
relationship. But there's a lot more to consider than the fact that expected returns rise along with
perceived risk, and in that regard the first graph is highly misleading. The second graph shows both the
underlying trend and the increasing potential for actual returns to deviate from expectations. While the
expected return rises along with risk, so does the probability of lower returns . . . and even of losses. This
way of looking at things reflects Professor Dimson's dictum that more than one thing can happen.
That's reality in an unpredictable world.

The Challenge of Managing Risk

The foregoing has been somewhat philosophical and theoretical. To provide a glimpse at how risk
operates in the real world, and even though you may have read it earlier, I reproduce here (with minor
modifications) a section that appeared with the above title in my memo "No Different This Time - The
Lessons of '07" (December 2007). It points out some of the ways in which risk deviates in practice from
the risk of theory. Each of these "realities" adds a degree of complexity that wouldn't exist if risk were
quantifiable, linear and dependable, and thus easily treated. But then it wouldn't be risk.

One of the reasons investor confidence was hit so hard [in 2007] is simply that it was too high (as is
required for unsustainable market highs to be reached). And much of investors' excessive comfort was in
the area of risk, where it was roundly believed things were under control. But the truth is, it's hard to
manage risk.

As I stated in "Risk" (February 2006), investment risk is largely invisible - before the fact, except
perhaps to people with unusual insight, and even after an investment has been exited. For this reason,
many of the great financial disasters we've seen have been failures to foresee and manage risk. There
are several reasons for this:

 Risk exists only in the future, and it's impossible to know for sure what the future holds.
 Expectations are often formulated on the basis of what happened in the past, but the events of the
 past must be taken with a substantial grain of salt. No ambiguity is evident when we view the past.
 Only the things that happened happened. But that definiteness doesn't mean the process that
 creates outcomes is clear-cut and dependable. Many things could have happened in each case in
 the past, and the fact that only one did happen understates the potential for variability that existed.
 What I mean to say (inspired by Nicolas Nassim Taleb's "Fooled by Randomness") is that the history
 that took place is only one version of what it could have been. If you accept this, then the relevance
 of history to the future is much more limited than many believe to be the case. [Along these same
 lines, Peter Bernstein wrote the following in his November 2001 newsletter: "We like to rely on
 history to justify our forecasts of the long run, but history tells us over and over again that the
 unexpected and the unthinkable are the norm, not an anomaly. That is the real lesson of history."]

 Decisions whether or not to bear risk are made in contemplation of normal patterns recurring, and
 they do most of the time. But once in a while, something very different happens. Or as my friend
 (and highly skilled investor) Ric Kayne puts it, "Most of financial history has taken place within two
 standard deviations, but everything interesting has occurred outside of two standard deviations."
 That's what happened in 2007. We heard all the time that summer, "that was a 5-standard deviation
 event," or "that was a 10-sigma event," implying it should have happened only once every hundred
 or thousand or ten thousand years. So how could several such events have happened in a single
 week, as was claimed in August? The answer is that the improbability of their happening had been
 overestimated.

 Projections tend to cluster around historic norms and call for only small changes. The point is,
 people usually expect the future to be like the past and underestimate the potential for change. In
 August 1996, I wrote a memo showing that in the Wall Street Journal's semi-annual poll of
 economists, on average the predictions are an extrapolation of the current condition. And when I
 was a young analyst following Textron, building my earnings estimates based on projections for its
 four major groups, I invariably found that I had underestimated the extent of both the positive
 surprises and the shortfalls.

 We hear a lot about "worst-case" projections, but they often turn out not to be negative enough.
 What forecasters mean is "bad-case projections." I tell my father's story of the gambler who lost
 regularly. One day he heard about a race with only one horse in it, so he bet the rent money. Half
 way around the track, the horse jumped over the fence and ran away. Invariably things can get
 worse than people expect. Maybe "worst-case" means "the worst we've seen in the past." But that
 doesn't mean things can't be worse in the future. In 2007, many people's worst-case assumptions
 were exceeded.

 Risk shows up lumpily. If we say "2% of mortgages default each year," and even if that's true when
 we look at a multi-year average, an unusual spate of defaults can occur at a point in time, sinking a
 structured finance vehicle. Ben Graham and David Dodd put it this way: ". . . the relation between
 different kinds of investments and the risk of loss is entirely too indefinite, and too variable with
 changing conditions, to permit of sound mathematical formulation. This is particularly true because
 investment losses are not distributed fairly evenly in point of time, but tend to be concentrated at
 intervals . . ." (Security Analysis, 1940 Edition). It's invariably the case that some investors -
 especially those who employ high leverage - will fail to survive at those intervals.

 People overestimate their ability to gauge risk and understand mechanisms they've never before
 seen in operation. In theory, one thing that distinguishes humans from other species is that we can
 figure out that something's dangerous without experiencing it. We don't have to burn ourselves to
 know we shouldn't sit on a hot stove. But in bullish times, people tend not to perform this function.
 Rather than recognize risk ahead, they tend to overestimate their ability to understand how new
 financial inventions will work.

 Finally and importantly, most people view risk taking primarily as a way to make money. Bearing
 higher risk generally produces higher returns. The market has to set things up to look like that'll be
 the case; if it didn't, people wouldn't make risky investments. But it can't always work that way, or
 else risky investments wouldn't be risky. And when risk bearing doesn't work, it really doesn't
 work, and people are reminded what risk's all about.

Most of the time, risk bearing works out just fine. In fact, it's often the case that the people who take the
most risk make the most money. However, there also are times when underestimating risk and accepting
too much of it can be fatal. Taking too little risk can cause you to underperform your peers - but that
beats the heck out of the consequences of taking too much risk at the wrong time. No one ever went
bankrupt because of an excess of risk consciousness. But a shortage of it - and the imprudent
investments it led to - bears responsibility for a lot of what went on in 2007.

The Many Forms of Risk

The possibility of permanent loss may be the main risk in investing, but it's not the only risk. I can
think of lots of other risks, many of which contribute to - or are components of - that main risk.

In the past, in addition to the risk of permanent loss, I've mentioned the risk of falling short. Some
investors face return requirements in order to make necessary payouts, as in the case of pension funds,
endowments and insurance companies. Others have more basic needs, like generating enough income to
live on.

Some investors with needs - particularly those who live on their income, and especially in today's low-
return environment - face a serious conundrum. If they put their money into safe investments, their
returns may be inadequate. But if they take on incremental risk in pursuit of a higher return, they
face the possibility of a still-lower return, and perhaps of permanent diminution of their capital,
rendering their subsequent income lower still. There's no easy way to resolve this conundrum.

There are actually two possible causes of inadequate returns: (a) targeting a high return and being
thwarted by negative events and (b) targeting a low return and achieving it. In other words, investors
face not one but two major risks: the risk of losing money and the risk of missing opportunities.
Either can be eliminated but not both. And leaning too far in order to avoid one can set you up to be
victimized by the other.

Potential opportunity costs - the result of missing opportunities - usually aren't taken as seriously as real
potential losses. But they do deserve attention. Put another way, we have to consider the risk of not
taking enough risk.

These days, the fear of losing money seems to have receded (since the crisis is all of six years in the past),
and the fear of missing opportunities is riding high, given the paltry returns available on safe, mundane
investments. Thus a new risk has arisen: FOMO risk, or the risk that comes from excessive fear of
missing out. It's important to worry about missing opportunities, since people who don't can invest too
conservatively. But when that worry becomes excessive, FOMO can drive an investor to do things he
shouldn't do and often doesn't understand, just because others are doing them: if he doesn't jump on the
bandwagon, he may be left behind to live with envy.

Over the last three years, Oaktree's response to the paucity of return has been to develop a suite of five
credit strategies that we hope will produce a 10% return, either net or gross (we can't claim to be more
precise than that). I call them collectively the "ten percent solution," after a Sherlock Holmes story called
The Seven-Per-Cent Solution (we aim to do better). Talking to clients about these strategies and helping
them choose between them has required me to focus on their risks.

"Just a minute," you might say, "the ten-year Treasury is paying just 21⁄2% and, as Jeremy Grantham says,
the risk-free rate is also return-free. How, then, can you target returns in the vicinity of 10%?" The

answer is that it can't be done without taking risk of some kind - and there are several candidates. I'll list
below a few risks that we're consciously bearing in order to generate the returns our clients desire:

 Today's ultra-low interest rates imply low returns for anyone who invests in what are deemed
 safe fixed income instruments. So Oaktree's pursuit of attractive returns centers on accepting and
 managing credit risk, or the risk that a borrower will be unable to pay interest and repay
 principal as scheduled. Treasurys are assumed to be free of credit risk, and most high grade
 corporates are thought to be nearly so. Thus those who intelligently accept incremental credit
 risk must do so with the expectation that the incremental return promised as compensation
 will prove sufficient.

 Voluntarily accepting credit risk has been at the core of what Oaktree has done since its
 beginning in 1995 (and in fact since the seed was planted in 1978, when I initiated Citibank's
 high yield bond effort). But bearing credit risk will lead to attractive returns only if it's done
 well. Our activities are based on two beliefs: (a) that because the investing establishment is
 averse to credit risk, the incremental returns we receive for bearing it will compensate generously
 for the risk entailed and (b) that credit risk is manageable - i.e., unlike the general future, credit
 risk can be gauged by experts (like us) and reduced through credit selection. It wouldn't make
 sense to voluntarily bear incremental credit risk if either of these two beliefs were lacking.

 Another way to access attractive returns in today's low-rate environment is to bear illiquidity
 risk in order to take advantage of investors' normal dislike for illiquidity (superior returns often
 follow from investor aversion). Institutions that held a lot of illiquid assets suffered considerably
 in the crisis of 2008, when they couldn't sell them; thus many developed a strong aversion to
 them and in some cases imposed limitations on their representation in portfolios. Additionally,
 today the flow of retail money is playing a big part in driving up asset prices and driving down
 returns. Since retail money has a harder time making its way to illiquid assets, this has made the
 returns on the latter appear more attractive. It's noteworthy that there aren't mutual funds or
 ETFs for many of the things we're investing in.

 Some strategies introduce it voluntarily and some can't get away from it: concentration risk.
 "Everyone knows" diversification is a good thing, since it reduces the impact on results of a
 negative development. But some people eschew the safety that comes with diversification in
 favor of concentrating their investments in assets or with managers they expect to outperform.
 And some investment strategies don't permit full diversification because of the limitations of
 their subject markets. Thus problems - if and when they occur - will be bigger per se.

 Especially given today's low interest rates, borrowing additional capital to enhance returns is
 another way to potentially increase returns. But doing so introduces leverage risk. Leverage
 adds to risk two ways. The first is magnification: people are attracted to leverage because it will
 magnify gains, but under unfavorable outcomes it will magnify losses instead.

 The second way in which leverage adds to risk stems from funding risk, one of the classic
 reasons for financial disaster. The stage is set when someone borrows short-term funds to make a
 long-term investment. If the funds have to be repaid at an awkward time - due to their maturity,
 a margin call, or some other reason - and the purchased assets can't be sold in a timely fashion
 (or can only be sold at a depressed price), an investment that might otherwise have been
 successful can be cut short and end in sorrow. Little or nothing may remain of the sale proceeds
 once the leverage has been repaid, in which case the investor's equity will be decimated. This is
 commonly called a meltdown. It's the primary reason for the saying, "Never forget the six-foot-

 tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average." In times of crisis,
 success over the long run can become irrelevant.

 When credit risk, illiquidity risk, concentration risk and leverage risk are borne
 intelligently, it is in the hope that the investor's skill will be sufficient to produce success. If
 so, the potential incremental returns that appear to be offered as risk compensation will
 turn into realized incremental returns (per the graphic at the top of page 8). That's the only
 reason anyone would do these things.

 As the graphic at the bottom of page 8 illustrates, however, investing further out on the risk curve
 exposes one to a broader range of investment outcomes. In an efficient market, returns are
 tethered to the market average; in an inefficient market, they're not. Inefficient markets offer
 the possibility that an investor will escape from the "gravitational pull" of the market's
 average return, but that can be either for the better or for the worse. Superior investors -
 those with "alpha," or the personal skill needed to achieve outsized returns for a given level of
 risk - have scope to perform well above the mean return, while inferior investors can come out
 far below. So hiring an investment manager introduces manager risk: the risk of picking the
 wrong one. It's possible to pay management fees but get decisions that detract from results rather
 than add.

Some or all of the above risks are potentially entailed in our new credit strategies. Parsing them allows
investors to choose among the strategies and accept the risks they're more comfortable with. The process
can be quite informative.

Our oldest "new strategy" is Enhanced Income, where we use leverage to magnify the return from a
portfolio of senior loans. We think senior loans have the lowest credit risk of anything Oaktree deals
with, since they're senior-most among their issuer's debt and historically have produced very few credit
losses. Further, they're among our most liquid assets, meaning we face relatively little illiquidity risk,
and being active in a broad public market permits us to diversify, reducing concentration risk. Given the
relatively high degree of safety stemming from these loans' seniority, returns aren't overly dependent on
the presence of alpha, meaning Enhanced Income entails less manager risk than some other strategies.
But to have a chance at the healthy return we're pursuing in Enhanced Income requires us to take some
risk, and what we're left with is leverage risk. The 3-to-1 leverage in Enhanced Income Fund II will
magnify the negative impact of any credit losses (of course we hope there won't be many). However,
we're not worried about a meltdown, since the current environment allows us to avoid funding risk; we
can (a) borrow for a term that exceeds the duration of the underlying investments and (b) do so without
the threat of margin calls related to price declines.

Strategic Credit, Mezzanine Finance, European Private Debt and Real Estate Debt are the other four
components of our "ten percent solution."

 All four entail some degree of credit risk, illiquidity risk (they all invest heavily or entirely in
 private debt) and concentration risk (as their market niches offer only a modest number of
 investment opportunities, and securing them in today's competitive environment is a challenge).

 The Real Estate Debt Fund can only lever up to 1-to-1, and the other three borrow only small
 amounts and for short-term purposes, so none of them entails significant leverage risk.

 However, in order to succeed they'll all require a high level of skill from their managers in
 identifying return prospects and keeping risk under control. Thus they all entail manager risk.
 Our response is to entrust these portfolios only to managers who've been with us for years.

It's reasonable - essential, really - to study the risk entailed in every investment and accept the
amounts and types of risk that you're comfortable with (assuming this can be discerned). It's not
reasonable to expect highly superior returns without bearing some incremental risk.

I touched above on concentration risk, but we should also think about the flip side: the risk of over-
diversification. If you have just a few holdings in a portfolio, or if an institution employs just a few
managers, one bad decision can do significant damage to results. But if you have a very large number of
holdings or managers, no one of them can have much of a positive impact on performance. Nobody
invests in just the one stock or manager they expect to perform best, but as the number of positions is
expanded, the standards for inclusion may decline. Peter Lynch coined the term "diworstification" to
describe the process through which lesser investments are added to portfolios, making the potential risk-
adjusted return worse.

While I don't think volatility and risk are synonymous, there's no doubt that volatility does present risk.
If circumstances cause you to sell a volatile investment at the wrong time, you might turn a downward
fluctuation into a permanent loss. Moreover, even in the absence of a need for liquidity, volatility can
prey on investors' emotions, reducing the probability they'll do the right thing. And in the short run, it
can be very hard to differentiate between a downward fluctuation and a permanent loss. Often this
can really be done only in retrospect. Thus it's clear that a professional investor may have to bear
consequences for a temporary downward fluctuation simply because of its resemblance to a permanent
loss. When you're under pressure, the distinction between "volatility" and "loss" can seem only
semantic. Volatility is not "the" definition of investment risk, as I said earlier, but it isn't irrelevant.

One example of a risk connected with volatility - or the deviation of price from what might be intrinsic
value - is basis risk. Arbitrageurs customarily set up positions where they're long one asset and short a
related asset. The two assets are expected to move roughly in parallel, except that the one that's slightly
cheaper should make more money for the investor in the long run than the other loses, producing a small
net gain with little risk. Because these trades are considered so low in risk, they're often levered up to the
sky. But sometimes the prices of the two assets diverge to an unexpected extent, and the equity invested
in the trade evaporates. That unexpected divergence is basis risk, and it's what happened to Long-Term
Capital Management in 1998, one of the most famous meltdowns of all time. As Long-Term's chairman
John Meriwether said at the time, "the Fund added to its positions in anticipation of convergence, yet . . .
the trades diverged dramatically." This benign-sounding explanation was behind a collapse some thought
capable of bringing down the global financial system.

Long-Term's failure was also attributable to model risk. Decisions can be turned over to quants or
financial engineers who either (a) conclude wrongly that an unsystematic process can be modeled or (b)
employ the wrong model. During the financial crisis, models often assumed that events would occur
according to a "normal distribution," but extreme "tail events" occurred much more often than the normal
distribution says they will. Not only can extreme events exceed a model's assumptions, but excessive
belief in a model's efficacy can induce people to take risks they would never take on the basis of
qualitative judgment. They're often disappointed to find they had put too much faith in a statistical sure
thing.

Model risk can arise from black swan risk, for which I borrow the title of Nassim Nicholas Taleb's
popular second book. People tend to confuse "never been seen" with "impossible," and the consequences
can be dire when something occurs for the first time. That's part of the reason why people lost so much

in highly levered subprime mortgage securities. The fact that a nationwide spate of mortgage defaults
hadn't happened convinced investors that it couldn't happen, and their certainty caused them to take
actions so imprudent that it had to happen.

As long as we're on the subject of things going wrong, we should touch on the subject of career risk. As
I mentioned in Dare to Be Great II, "agents" who manage money for others can be penalized for
investments that look like losers (that is, for both permanent losses and temporary downward
fluctuations). Either of these unfortunate experiences can result in headline risk if the resulting losses
are big enough to make it into the media, and some careers can't withstand headline risk. Investors who
lack the potential to share commensurately in investment successes face a reward asymmetry that can
force them toward the safe end of the risk/return curve. They are likely to think more about the risk of
losing money than about the risk of missing opportunities. Thus their portfolios may lean too far toward
controlling risk and avoiding embarrassment (and they may not take enough chances to generate returns).
There are consequences for these investors, as well as for those who employ them.

Event risk is another risk to worry about, something that was created by bond issuers about twenty years
ago. Since corporate directors have a fiduciary responsibility to stockholders but not to bondholders,
some think they can (and perhaps should) do anything that's not explicitly prohibited to transfer value
from bondholders to stockholders. Bondholders need covenants to shield them from this kind of pro-
active plundering, but at times like today it can be hard to obtain strong protective covenants.

There are many ways for an investment to be unsuccessful. The two main ones are fundamental risk
(relating to how a company or asset performs in the real world) and valuation risk (relating to how the
market prices that performance). For years investors, fiduciaries and rule-makers acted on the belief that
it's safe to buy high-quality assets and risky to buy low-quality assets. But between 1968 and 1973, many
investors in the "Nifty Fifty" (the stocks of the fifty fastest-growing and best companies in America) lost
80-90% of their money. Attitudes have evolved since then, and today there's less of an assumption that
high quality prevents fundamental risk, and much less preoccupation with quality for its own sake.

On the other hand, investors are more sensitive to the pivotal role played by price. At bottom, the
riskiest thing is overpaying for an asset (regardless of its quality), and the best way to reduce risk is
by paying a price that's irrationally low (ditto). A low price provides a "margin of safety," and that's
what risk-controlled investing is all about. Valuation risk should be easily combatted, since it's
largely within the investor's control. All you have to do is refuse to buy if the price is too high given
the fundamentals. "Who wouldn't do that?" you might ask. Just think about the people who bought into
the tech bubble.

Fundamental risk and valuation risk bear on the risk of losing money in an individual security or asset,
but that's far from the whole story. Correlation is the essential additional piece of the puzzle.
Correlation is the degree to which an asset's price will move in sympathy with the movements of others.
The higher the correlation among its components, all other things being equal, the less effective
diversification a portfolio has, and the more exposed it is to untoward developments.

An asset doesn't have "a correlation." Rather, it has a different correlation with every other asset. A
bond has a certain correlation with a stock. One stock has a certain correlation with another stock (and a
different correlation with a third). Stocks of one type (such as emerging market, high-tech or large-cap)
are likely to be highly correlated with others within their category, but they may be either high or low in
correlation with those in other categories. Bottom line: it's hard to estimate the riskiness of a given
asset, but many times harder to estimate its correlation with all the other assets in a portfolio, and
thus the impact on performance of adding it to the portfolio. This is a real art.

Fixed income investors are directly exposed to another form of risk: interest rate risk. Higher interest
rates mean lower bond prices - that relationship is absolute. The impact of changes in interest rates on
asset classes other than fixed income is less direct and less obvious, but it also pervades the markets.
Note that stocks usually go down when the Fed says the economy is performing strongly. Why? The
thinking is that stronger economy = higher interest rates = more competition for stocks from bonds =
lower stock valuations. Or it might be stronger economy = higher interest rates = reduced stimulus =
weaker economy.

One of the reasons for increases in interest rates relates to purchasing power risk. Investors in securities
(and especially long-term bonds) are exposed to the risk that if inflation rises, the amount they receive in
the future will buy less than it could today. This causes investors to insist on higher interest rates and
higher prospective returns to protect them against the loss of purchasing power. The result is lower
prices.

Finally, I want to mention a new concept I hear about once in a while: upside risk. Forecasters are
sometimes heard to say "the risk is on the upside." At first this doesn't seem to have much legitimacy,
but it can be about the possibility that the economy may catch fire and do better than expected, earnings
may come in above consensus, or the stock market may appreciate more than people think. Since these
things are positives, there's risk in being underexposed to them.

 * * *

To move to the biggest of big pictures, I want to make a few over-arching comments about risk.

The first is that risk is counterintuitive.

 The riskiest thing in the world is the widespread belief that there's no risk.
 Fear that the market is risky (and the prudent investor behavior that results) can render it quite
 safe.
 As an asset declines in price, making people view it as riskier, it becomes less risky (all else being
 equal).
 As an asset appreciates, causing people to think more highly of it, it becomes riskier.
 Holding only "safe" assets of one type can render a portfolio under-diversified and make it
 vulnerable to a single shock.
 Adding a few "risky" assets to a portfolio of safe assets can make it safer by increasing its
 diversification. Pointing this out was one of Professor William Sharpe's great contributions.

The second is that risk aversion is the thing that keeps markets safe and sane.

 When investors are risk-conscious, they will demand generous risk premiums to compensate
 them for bearing risk. Thus the risk/return line will have a steep slope (the unit increase in
 prospective return per unit increase in perceived risk will be large) and the market should reward
 risk-bearing as theory asserts.
 But when people forget to be risk-conscious and fail to require compensation for bearing risk,
 they'll make risky investments even if risk premiums are skimpy. The slope of the line will be
 gradual, and risk taking is likely to eventually be penalized, not rewarded.
 When risk aversion is running high, investors will perform extensive due diligence, make
 conservative assumptions, apply skepticism and deny capital to risky schemes.

 But when risk tolerance is widespread instead, these things will fall by the wayside and deals will
 be done that set the scene for subsequent losses.

Simply put, risk is low when risk aversion and risk consciousness are high, and high when they're low.

The third is that risk is often hidden and thus deceptive. Loss occurs when risk - the possibility of
loss - collides with negative events. Thus the riskiness of an investment becomes apparent only when it
is tested in a negative environment. It can be risky but not show losses as long as the environment
remains salutary. The fact that an investment is susceptible to a serious negative development that will
occur only infrequently - what I call "the improbable disaster" - can make it appear safer than it really is.
Thus after several years of a benign environment, a risky investment can easily pass for safe. That's why
Warren Buffett famously said, ". . . you only find out who's swimming naked when the tide goes out."

Assembling a portfolio that incorporates risk control as well as the potential for gains is a great
accomplishment. But it's a hidden accomplishment most of the time, since risk only turns into loss
occasionally . . . when the tide goes out.

The fourth is that risk is multi-faceted and hard to deal with. In this memo I've mentioned 24
different forms of risk: the risk of losing money, the risk of falling short, the risk of missing opportunities,
FOMO risk, credit risk, illiquidity risk, concentration risk, leverage risk, funding risk, manager risk, over-
diversification risk, risk associated with volatility, basis risk, model risk, black swan risk, career risk,
headline risk, event risk, fundamental risk, valuation risk, correlation risk, interest rate risk, purchasing
power risk, and upside risk. And I'm sure I've omitted some. Many times these risks are overlapping,
contrasting and hard to manage simultaneously. For example:

 Efforts to reduce the risk of losing money invariably increase the risk of missing out.
 Efforts to reduce fundamental risk by buying higher-quality assets often increase valuation risk,
 given that higher-quality assets often sell at elevated valuation metrics.

At bottom, it's the inability to arrive at a single formula that simultaneously minimizes all the risks that
makes investing the fascinating and challenging pursuit it is.

The fifth is that the task of managing risk shouldn't be left to designated risk managers. I'm
convinced outsiders to the fundamental investment process can't know enough about the subject assets to
make appropriate decisions regarding each one. All they can do is apply statistical models and norms.
But those models may be the wrong ones for the underlying assets - or just plain faulty - and there's little
evidence that they add value. In particular, risk managers can try to estimate correlation and tell you how
things will behave when combined in a portfolio. But they can fail to adequately anticipate the "fault
lines" that run through portfolios. And anyway, as the old saying goes, "in times of crisis all correlations
go to one" and everything collapses in unison.

"Value at Risk" was supposed to tell the banks how much they could lose on a very bad day. During the
crisis, however, VaR was often shown to have understated the risk, since the assumptions hadn't been
harsh enough. Given the fact that risk managers are required at banks and de rigueur elsewhere, I think
more money was spent on risk management in the early 2000s than in the rest of history combined . . .
and yet we experienced the worst financial crisis in 80 years. Investors can calculate risk metrics like
VaR and Sharpe ratios (we use them at Oaktree; they're the best tools we have), but they shouldn't put
too much faith in them. The bottom line for me is that risk management should be the responsibility
of every participant in the investment process, applying experience, judgment and knowledge of the
underlying investments.

The sixth is that while risk should be dealt with constantly, investors are often tempted to do so only
sporadically. Since risk only turns into loss when bad things happen, this can cause investors to apply
risk control only when the future seems ominous. At other times they may opt to pile on risk in the
expectation that good things lie ahead. But since we can't predict the future, we never really know when
risk control will be needed. Risk control is unnecessary in times when losses don't occur, but that doesn't
mean it's wrong to have it. The best analogy is to fire insurance: do you consider it a mistake to have
paid the premium in a year in which your house didn't burn down?

Taken together these six observations convince me that Charlie Munger's trenchant comment on
investing in general - "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid." - is
profoundly applicable to risk management. Effective risk management requires deep insight and a deft
touch. It has to be based on a superior understanding of the probability distributions that will govern
future events. Those who would achieve it have to have a good sense for what the crucial moving parts
are, what will influence them, what outcomes are possible, and how likely each one is. Following on
with Charlie's idea, thinking risk control is easy is perhaps the greatest trap in investing, since
excessive confidence that they have risk under control can make investors do very risky things.

Thus the key prerequisites for risk control also include humility, lack of hubris, and knowing what
you don't know. No one ever got into trouble for confessing a lack of prescience, being highly risk-
conscious, and even investing scared. Risk control may restrain results during a rebound from crisis
conditions or extreme under-valuations, when those who take the most risk generally make the most
money. But it will also extend an investment career and increase the likelihood of long-term success.
That's why Oaktree was built on the belief that risk control is "the most important thing."

Lastly while dealing in generalities, I want to point out that whereas risk control is indispensable,
risk avoidance isn't an appropriate goal. The reason is simple: risk avoidance usually goes hand-
in-hand with return avoidance. While you shouldn't expect to make money just for bearing risk,
you also shouldn't expect to make money without bearing risk.

 * * *

At present I consider risk control more important than usual. To put it briefly:

 Today's ultra-low interest rates have brought the prospective returns on money market
 instruments, Treasurys and high grade bonds to nearly zero.
 This has caused money to flood into riskier assets in search of higher returns.
 This, in turn, has caused some investors to drop their usual caution and engage in aggressive
 tactics.
 And this, finally, has caused standards in the capital markets to deteriorate, making it easy for
 issuers to place risky securities and - consequently - hard for investors to buy safe ones.

Warren Buffett put it best, and I regularly return to his statement on the subject:

 . . . the less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence
 with which we should conduct our own affairs.

While investor behavior hasn't sunk to the depths seen just before the crisis (and, in my opinion, that
contributed greatly to it), in many ways it has entered the zone of imprudence. To borrow a metaphor

from Chuck Prince, Citigroup's CEO from 2003 to 2007, anyone who's totally unwilling to dance to
today's fast-paced music can find it challenging to put money to work.

It's the job of investors to strike a proper balance between offense and defense, and between worrying
about losing money and worrying about missing opportunity. Today I feel it's important to pay more
attention to loss prevention than to the pursuit of gain. For the last four years Oaktree's mantra has
been "move forward, but with caution." At this time, in reiterating that mantra, I would increase the
emphasis on those last three words: "but with caution."

Economic and company fundamentals in the U.S. are fine today, and asset prices - while full - don't
seem to be at bubble levels. But when undemanding capital markets and a low level of risk aversion
combine to encourage investors to engage in risky practices, something usually goes wrong eventually.
Although I have no idea what could make the day of reckoning come sooner rather than later, I
don't think it's too early to take today's carefree market conditions into consideration. What I do
know is that those conditions are creating a degree of risk for which there is no commensurate risk
premium. We have to behave accordingly.

June 8, 2015 (updating Risk Revisited published September 3, 2014)


Memo: It’s Not Easy.

In 2011, as I was putting the finishing touches on my book The Most Important Thing, I was fortunate to
have one of my occasional lunches with Charlie Munger. As it ended and I got up to go, he said
something about investing that I keep going back to: "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds
it easy is stupid."

As usual, Charlie packed a great deal of wisdom into just a few words. Let's take the first six: "It's not
supposed to be easy." While it's pretty simple to achieve average results, it shouldn't be easy to make
superior investments and earn outsized returns. John Kenneth Galbraith said something similar years ago:

 There is nothing reliable to be learned about making money. If there were, study would
 be intense and everyone with a positive IQ would be rich.

What Charlie and Professor Galbraith meant is this: Everyone wants to make money, and especially to
find the sure thing or "silver bullet" that will allow them to do it without commensurate risk. Thus they
work hard (actually, study is intense), searching for bargain securities and approaches that will give them
an edge. They buy up the bargains and apply the approaches. The result is that the efforts of these
market participants tend to drive out opportunities for easy money. Securities become more fairly priced,
and free lunches become harder to find. It makes no sense to think it would be otherwise.

And what about the next seven words: "Anyone who finds it easy is stupid"? It follows from the above
that given how hard investors work to find special opportunities, and that their buying eliminates such
prospects, people who think it can be easy overlook substantial nuance and complexity.

Markets are meeting places where people come together (not necessarily physically) to exchange one
thing (usually money) for another. Markets have a number of functions, one of which is to eliminate
opportunities for excess returns.

Ed calls me and bids $10,000 for my car. Then he offers to sell it to Bob for $20,000. If Ed's lucky and
we both say yes, he doubles his money overnight. To put it simply, anyone who expects to make money
easily trading cars this way either thinks (a) Bob and I are idiots or (b) the market won't function in a way
that enables us to know about the fair value of my car. If these conditions were met, it would be an
"inefficient market."

But if Bob and I have access to market data on used car pricing, Ed's chances of pulling off this deal are
greatly reduced. In most markets, transparency tends to reveal and thus preclude obvious
mispricings. (Thanks to the incredible gains in access to data by way of the Internet, this is certainly
more true today than ever before.) In my view, this is a good part of the basis for Charlie's comment:
anyone who thinks it's easy to achieve unusual profits is overlooking the way markets operate. This
memo is largely about the challenges they present.

Second-Level Thinking

I always thought that when I retired, I would write a book pulling together the elements of investment
philosophy discussed in my memos. But in 2009, I got a letter from Warren Buffett saying that if I'd
write a book, he'd give me a blurb for the jacket. It didn't take me long to move up my timing.

Columbia Business School Publishing had been talking to me about a book, and when I told them I was
ready, they asked to see a sample chapter. For some reason, I was able to sit down - without previously
having given the topic any organized thought - and knock out a chapter about the importance of
something I labeled "second-level thinking." This is a crucial subject that has to be understood by
everyone who aspires to be a superior investor. And yet I've never covered it explicitly for the readers of
my memos. I want to correct that now.

In what ended up being the book's first chapter, I introduced the subject as follows:

 Remember your goal in investing isn't to earn average returns; you want to do better than
 average. Thus your thinking has to be better than that of others - both more powerful and
 at a higher level. Since others may be smart, well-informed and highly computerized,
 you must find an edge they don't have. You must think of something they haven't
 thought of, see things they miss, or bring insight they don't possess. You have to react
 differently and behave differently. In short, being right may be a necessary condition for
 investment success, but it won't be sufficient. You must be more right than others . . .
 which by definition means your thinking has to be different. . . .

 For your performance to diverge from the norm, your expectations - and thus your
 portfolio - have to diverge from the norm, and you have to be more right than the
 consensus. Different and better: that's a pretty good description of second-level thinking.

Second-level thinking is what immediately pops into my mind when I think about Charlie's observation.
And it's a good general heading under which to discuss the great many things that make superior
investing a challenge. In short, to borrow from Charlie, anyone who thinks it's easy must be a first-
level thinker. Let me use some simple examples from the book to illustrate the difference.

 • First-level thinking says, "It's a good company; let's buy the stock." Second-level
 thinking says, "It's a good company, but everyone thinks it's a great company, and
 it's not. So the stock's overrated and overpriced; let's sell."

 • First-level thinking says, "The outlook calls for low growth and rising inflation.
 Let's dump our stocks." Second-level thinking says, "The outlook stinks, but
 everyone else is selling in panic. Buy!"

 • First-level thinking says, "I think the company's earnings will fall; sell." Second-
 level thinking says, "I think the company's earnings will fall far less than people
 expect, and the pleasant surprise will lift the stock; buy."

 First-level thinking is simplistic and superficial, and just about everyone can do it (a bad
 sign for anything involving an attempt at superiority). All the first-level thinker needs is
 an opinion about the future, as in, "The outlook for the company is favorable, meaning
 the stock will go up."

 Second-level thinking is deep, complex and convoluted. The second-level thinker takes
 many things into account:

 • What is the range of likely future outcomes?
 • Which outcome do I think will occur?
 • What's the probability I'm right?
 • What does the consensus think?
 • How does my expectation differ from the consensus?
 • How does the current price for the asset comport with the consensus view of the
 future, and with mine?
 • Is the consensus psychology that's incorporated in the price too bullish or bearish?
 • What will happen to the asset's price if the consensus turns out to be right, and what
 if I'm right?

The bottom line is that first-level thinkers see what's on the surface, react to it simplistically, and buy or
sell on the basis of their reactions. They don't understand their setting as a marketplace where asset
prices reflect and depend on the expectations of the participants. They ignore the part that others
play in how prices change. And they fail to understand the implications of all this for the route to
success.

For example, when I lived in Los Angeles, a stockbroker often spoke on the radio station I listened to
while driving to work. His advice was simple: "If there's a company whose product you like, buy the
stock." That's first-level thinking. How seductively easy. But also how error-prone, in that it ignores the
possibility that a company with a good product can have a bad business; the good product can become
obsolete; or the stock can be priced too high to be a good investment.

On the other hand, second-level thinkers double-think (and triple-think) every angle of every situation. A
good example can be seen in the hypothetical newspaper contest John Maynard Keynes wrote about in
1936. Readers would be shown 100 photos and asked to choose the six prettiest girls, with prizes going
to the readers who chose the girls readers voted for most often. Naive entrants would try to win by
picking the prettiest girls. But note that the contest would reward the readers who chose not the
prettiest girls, but the most popular. Thus the road to winning would lie not in figuring out which were
the prettiest, but in predicting which girls the average entrant would consider prettiest. Clearly, to do so,
the winner would have to be a second-level thinker. (The first-level thinker wouldn't even recognize the
difference.)

Wikipedia points out that one vying to win the contest might go beyond this distinction:

 This can be carried one step further to take into account the fact that other entrants would
 each have their own opinion of what public perceptions are. Thus the strategy can be
 extended to the next order and the next and so on, at each level attempting to predict the
 eventual outcome of the process based on the reasoning of other agents.

 "It is not a case of choosing those [faces] that, to the best of one's judgment, are really
 the prettiest, nor even those that average opinion genuinely thinks the prettiest. We have
 reached the third degree where we devote our intelligences to anticipating what average
 opinion expects the average opinion to be. And there are some, I believe, who practice
 the fourth, fifth and higher degrees." (Keynes, The General Theory of Employment,
 Interest and Money, 1936).

Keynes created his contest to make a point about the stock market. In the short run, beating the market
requires the ability to predict which stocks will win the popularity contest among investors. Higher-level
thinkers who recognize this dynamic have a head start toward earning the greatest gains. Ben Graham
applied the same thinking when he described the market as a "voting machine" in the short run (although
he made plain his belief that it's a "weighing machine" in the long run).

The first-level thinker simply looks for the highest-quality company, the best product, the fastest
earnings growth or the lowest p/e ratio. He's ignorant of the very existence of a second level at
which to think, and of the need to pursue it.

The second-level thinker goes through a much more complex process when thinking about buying an
asset. Is it good? Do others think it's as good as I think it is? Is it really as good as I think it is? Is it as
good as others think it is? Is it as good as others think others think it is? How will it change? How do
others think it will change? How is it priced given: its current condition; how I think its condition will
change; how others think it will change; and how others think others think it will change? And that's just
the beginning. No, this isn't easy.

(Please note that the above discussion is entirely on the subject of short-term investing, and I go
through it only to provide a graphic illustration of the difference between first-level and second-
level thinking. Oaktree and I aren't focused on short-term results, and the thinking we apply to
long-run considerations is quite different. We think much less about what others will make
popular in the short run; instead, we rely on the eventual functioning of the weighing machine. The
highest priority - by far - should be an objective evaluation of fundamentals. Market participants can get
so caught up in predicting other participants' behavior that they ignore value and fail to buy bargains out
of fear that the assets in question will remain unpopular or become more so. This creates great
opportunities for those investors whose willingness to think independently and endure the short-term pain
that comes with temporary unpopularity enables them to purchase attractive investments from the bargain
counter.)

What Keynes's hypothetical contest shows most clearly is that the route to success in the competitive
arena may not be what it seems at first glance. When the goal is to lift the greatest weight, achieve the
lowest score on the golf course, get the highest grade on a math test or finish a crossword puzzle in the
shortest time, the competition is against oneself and the objective challenge at hand. But when the goal,
as it is in investing, is to outdo other people in a largely mental pursuit involving a lot of psychology -
while they're trying to do the same to you - the challenge is much more complex.

The investor's basic goal of buying desirable assets at fair prices is sensible and straightforward.
But the deeper you look, the more you see how many aspects of successful investing are
counterintuitive and how much of what seems obvious is wrong. There's a lot more that matters, of
course, but these realizations are key.

The Things Everyone Likes

The most outstanding characteristic of first-level thinkers - and of the investing herd - is that they
like things with obvious appeal. These are the things that are easy to understand and easy to buy. But
that's unlikely to be the path to investment success. Here's how I put it in "Everyone Knows" (April

 What's clear to the broad consensus of investors is almost always wrong.

 First, most people don't understand the process through which something comes to
 have outstanding moneymaking potential. And second, the very coalescing of
 popular opinion behind an investment tends to eliminate its profit potential.

 Take, for example, the investment that "everyone" believes to be a great idea. In my
 view by definition it simply cannot be so.

 • If everyone likes it, it's probably because it has been doing well. Most people seem
 to think outstanding performance to date presages outstanding future performance.
 Actually, it's more likely that outstanding performance to date has borrowed from the
 future and thus presages sub-par performance from here on out.

 • If everyone likes it, it's likely the price has risen to reflect a level of adulation from
 which relatively little further appreciation is likely. (Sure it's possible for something
 to move from "overvalued" to "more overvalued," but I wouldn't want to count on it
 happening.)

 • If everyone likes it, it's likely the area has been mined too thoroughly - and has seen
 too much capital flow in - for many bargains to remain.

 • If everyone likes it, there's significant risk that prices will fall if the crowd changes
 its collective mind and moves for the exit.

 Superior investors know - and buy - when the price of something is lower than it should
 be. And the price of an investment can be lower than it should be only when most people
 don't see its merit. Yogi Berra is famous for having said, "Nobody goes to that restaurant
 anymore; it's too crowded." It's just as nonsensical to say, "Everyone realizes that
 investment's a bargain." If everyone realizes it, they'll have bought, in which case the
 price will no longer be low.

So the things with the most obvious merit become the things that everyone likes. They're also likely
to be the things that are most hotly pursued and most highly priced, and thus least promising and
most treacherous. What are some examples?

When I first showed up for work in First National City Bank's investment research department in 1968,
the bank was investing heavily in the "Nifty Fifty": the stocks of America's best, fastest growing
companies. Since these were companies where nothing could go wrong, the official dictum said it didn't
matter much what price you paid. It didn't seem unreasonable to pay p/e ratios of 80 or 90 given these
companies' growth rates.

But it turned out that the price you pay does matter, and 80-90 times earnings had been too high. Thus,
when the market ran into trouble in the early 1970s, many of these stocks lost the vast majority of their
value, and investors learned the hard way that it's possible to like a good thing too much. Unsurprisingly,
it also turned out that predictions of a flawless future can be wrong, as once-dominant companies such as
Kodak, Polaroid and Xerox eventually went bankrupt or required turnarounds.

Roughly ten years ago, everyone was gaga over real estate, especially residential. This was underpinned
by some bits of "accepted wisdom" that seemed compelling, such as "you can always live in it," "home

prices always go up" and "real estate is a hedge against inflation." Conservative debt investors (rather
than buyers of homes themselves) were persuaded to buy levered and tranched mortgage-backed
securities by the fact that "there has never been a nationwide wave of mortgage defaults."

But in 2007 it turned out that home prices can go down as well as up, and mortgage loans extended
casually based on their flawless record can have flaws. Homes and mortgages, bought when everyone
liked them, turned out to be terrible investments.

The fact is, painful bubbles can't come into existence if there isn't an underlying grain of truth. The Nifty
Fifty were generally terrific companies. Home prices do tend to rise over time and offset inflation.
Mortgages generally are repaid or carry adequate collateral. The Internet would change the world. Oil at
$147/barrel was indispensable and in short supply. But in each case the merits were too obvious; the
investment ideas became too popular; and asset prices consequently became dangerously high.

Following the trends that are popular at a point in time certainly isn't a formula for investment
success, since popularity is likely to lead investors on a path that is comfortable but pointed in the
wrong direction. Here's more from "Everyone Knows":

 The fact is, there is no dependable sign pointing to the next big moneymaker: a good idea
 at a too-low price. Most people simply don't know how to find it. . . .

 Large amounts of money (and by that I mean unusual returns, or unusual risk-adjusted
 returns) aren't made by buying what everybody likes. They're made by buying what
 everybody underestimates.

 In short, there are two primary elements in superior investing:

 • seeing some quality that others don't see or appreciate (and that isn't reflected in the
 price), and
 • having it turn out to be true (or at least accepted by the market).

 It should be clear from the first element that the process has to begin with investors
 who are unusually perceptive, unconventional, iconoclastic or early. That's why
 successful investors are said to spend a lot of their time being lonely.

Risk and Counterintuitiveness

If what's obvious and what everyone knows is usually wrong, then what's right? The answer comes from
inverting the concept of obvious appeal. The truth is, the best buys are usually found in the things most
people don't understand or believe in. These might be securities, investment approaches or investing
concepts, but the fact that something isn't widely accepted usually serves as a green light to those who're
perceptive (and contrary) enough to see it. A great example can be found in the area of risk (again from
"Everyone Knows"):

 "I wouldn't buy that at any price - everyone knows it's too risky." That's something
 I've heard a lot in my life, and it has given rise to the best investment opportunities I've
 participated in. In fact, to an extent, it has provided the foundation for my career. In the
 1970s and 1980s, insistence on avoiding non-investment grade bonds kept them out of
 most institutional portfolios and therefore cheap. Ditto for the debt of bankrupt
 companies: what could be riskier?

 The truth is, the herd is wrong about risk at least as often as it is about return. A
 broad consensus that something's too hot to handle is almost always wrong. Usually it's
 the opposite that's true.

 I'm firmly convinced that investment risk resides most where it is least perceived,
 and vice versa:

 • When everyone believes something is risky, their unwillingness to buy usually
 reduces its price to the point where it's not risky at all. Broadly negative opinion can
 make it the least risky thing, since all optimism has been driven out of its price.

 • And, of course, as demonstrated by the experience of Nifty Fifty investors, when
 everyone believes something embodies no risk, they usually bid it up to the point
 where it's enormously risky. No risk is feared, and thus no reward for risk bearing -
 no "risk premium" - is demanded or provided. That can make the thing that's most
 esteemed the riskiest.

 This paradox exists because most investors think quality, as opposed to price, is the
 determinant of whether something's risky. But high-quality assets can be risky, and
 low-quality assets can be safe. It's just a matter of the price paid for them.

For me, it follows from the above that the bottom line is simple: the riskiest thing in the world is the
widespread belief that there's no risk. That's what most people believed in 2006-07, and that belief
abetted the careless behavior that brought on the Great Financial Crisis. Only an understanding that risk
was high could have discouraged that behavior and rendered the world safe.

I call this "the perversity of risk." For most people it's hard to grasp that a perception of safety brings
on risk, and a perception of risk can lead to safety. But it's clear for the deeper second-level thinker. This
is just another example of the fact that what "everyone knows" is what shapes the environment, bringing
high prices when things are perceived to be good, and vice versa.

A perception that fundamental risk is low and the future is positive causes investors to be optimistic.
This, in turn, causes asset prices to rise, and thus investment risk to be high. The problem that befalls
most people - the first-level thinkers - is that they fail to distinguish between fundamental risk and
investment risk.

What has to be remembered is the defining role of price. Regardless of whether the fundamental
outlook is positive or negative, the level of investment risk is determined largely by the relationship
between the price of an asset and its intrinsic value. There is no asset so good that it can't become
overpriced and thus risky, and few so bad that there's no price at which they're a buy (and safe). This is
one of the greatest examples of counterintuitiveness. Only those who are able to see its logic can
hope to be superior investors.

What Else?

I've covered a few of the most important topics under the headings of complexity and counter-
intuitiveness:

 • the importance of second-level thinking,
 • the lack of identity between "good company" and "good investment,"
 • the unhelpfulness of the things everyone knows, and
 • the perversity of risk.

I see, however, that I've already filled seven pages. So rather than continue to provide a full treatment of
all the topics I want to cover, let's conduct an exercise. I'll list below a number of elements of time-
honored investment wisdom. See if you can tell which are helpful and which aren't:

 • The market is "efficient," meaning asset prices reflect all available information and thus provide
 accurate estimates of intrinsic value.
 • Because people are risk-averse, risky deals are discouraged and the market awards appropriate
 risk premiums as compensation for incremental risk.
 • Risky investments produce high returns.
 • Adding risky assets to a portfolio makes it riskier.
 • It's desirable that everything in a well-diversified portfolio performs well.
 • Understanding the science of economics will enable you to safely harness the macro future.
 • Sometimes the outlook is clear, and sometimes it's complicated and unpredictable. You have to
 be careful when it's the latter.
 • Correct forecasts lead to investment gains.
 • A forecast has to be correct in order to be profitable.
 • The earning of a profit proves the investor made a good decision.
 • A low price makes for an attractive investment.
 • Assets that are appreciating deserve your attention.
 • Contrarianism will bring consistent success.
 • It's important to do what feels right.
 • Assets with greater liquidity are safer.
 • The level of risk in a portfolio can be kept low by applying a simple formulaic process.

My answer is that all sixteen reflect potential misconceptions, and they have to be (a) understood at the
second level, not the first, and (b) dismissed as always holding the keys to success. Here's why:

 • The market is "efficient," meaning asset prices reflect all available information and thus
 provide accurate estimates of intrinsic value - The efficient market hypothesis assumes people
 are rational and objective. But since emotion so often rules in place of reason, the market doesn't
 necessarily reflect what's true, but rather what investors think is true. Thus prices can range all
 over the place. Sometimes they're fair, but sometimes they're way too high or low. It's a big
 mistake to impute rationality to the market and believe its message.

 • Because people are risk-averse, risky deals are discouraged and the market awards
 appropriate risk premiums as compensation for incremental risk - The truth is that investors'
 risk-averseness fluctuates between too much and too little. When it's the latter, skepticism and
 conservatism dry up, due diligence is inadequate, risky deals are easy to pull off, and

 compensation for risk bearing usually turns out to be insufficient. Investors absolutely cannot
 depend on the market to discipline itself.

 • Risky investments produce high returns - This is one of the greatest of the old saws, and one
 of the wrongest.

 o A collection of low-risk investments can produce a high return if the low-risk character of
 the components permits them to perform dependably and keeps there from being any big
 losers to pull down the overall result. An absence of losses can give you a great start
 toward a good outcome. This is the cornerstone of Oaktree's investment philosophy.

 o On the other hand, high-risk investments can't be counted on for high returns. If they
 could, they wouldn't be high-risk. High-risk investments can fail to provide the high
 returns they seemed to promise if the analysis underlying them proves to have been ill-
 founded or if they run into negative developments.

 The presumed positive relationship between risk and return is predicated on the assumption that
 there's no such thing as investment skill and value-adding decision making. If markets are
 efficient and there's no skill, it's reasonable to believe that higher returns can be attained only
 through the bearing of increased risk. But if outstanding skill is present, there's no reason to
 think it can't be used to create portfolios with low risk and high return potential.

 • Adding risky assets to a portfolio makes it riskier - One of Nobel prize-winner William
 Sharpe's greatest contributions to investment theory came in the realization that if a portfolio
 holds only low-risk assets, the addition of a risky asset can make it safer. This happens because
 doing so increases the portfolio's diversification and reduces the correlation among its
 components, reducing its vulnerability to a single negative development.

 • It's desirable that everything in a well-diversified portfolio performs well - The truth is, if all
 the holdings were to perform well in one scenario, they could all perform poorly in another. That
 means the benefits of diversification wouldn't be enjoyed. It shouldn't be surprising - or totally
 disappointing - to have some laggards in a portfolio that's truly well-diversified.

 • Understanding the science of economics will enable you to safely harness the macro future -
 There are no immutable rules in play. "In economics and investments, because of the key role
 played by human nature, you just can't say for sure that 'if A, then B,' as you can in real science.
 The weakness of the connection between cause and effect makes outcomes uncertain. In other
 words, it introduces risk." ("Risk Revisited," September 2014).

 • Sometimes the outlook is clear, and sometimes it's complicated and unpredictable. You
 have to be careful when it's the latter - The truth is, the future is never worry-free. Sometimes
 it seems to be, because no risks are apparent. But the skies are never as clear as they seem at their
 clearest. Which is more treacherous: when everyone understands that the future presents
 risks, or when they believe it to be knowable and benign? As I mentioned earlier, I worry
 about the latter much more than the former.

 • Correct forecasts lead to investment gains - The easiest way to have a correct forecast is to
 extrapolate a trend and see it continue as expected. Most forecasters do a lot of extrapolating,
 meaning their forecasts are usually broadly shared. Thus when the trend does continue,
 everyone's right. But since everyone held the same view, the continuing trend was probably

 discounted in advance in the price of the asset, and the fact that it rolls on as expected doesn't
 necessarily produce profit. For a forecast to be highly profitable, it has to be idiosyncratic. But,
 given how often trends continue, idiosyncratic forecasts aren't often right.

 • A forecast has to be correct in order to be profitable - Just as correct forecasts aren't
 necessarily profitable, profitable forecasts don't have to be correct. A forecast - even if it's not
 correct - can be profitable if it's merely less wrong than others. If a trend that everyone else
 extrapolates turns out not to continue, a prediction of the deviation can be very profitable . . . even
 if it's not exactly on target.

 • The earning of a profit proves the investor made a good decision - One of the first things I
 learned at Wharton was that you can't necessarily tell the quality of a decision from the outcome.
 Given the unpredictability of future events and, especially, the presence of randomness in the
 world, a lot of well-reasoned decisions produce losses, and plenty of poor decisions are
 profitable. Thus one good year or a few big winners may tell us nothing about an investor's skill.
 We have to see a lot of outcomes and a long history - and especially a history that includes some
 tough years - before we can say whether an investor has skill or not.

 • A low price makes for an attractive investment - I talked at the bottom of page seven about the
 importance of price in determining whether an investment is risky. But if you reread the part in
 bold, you'll see it doesn't say a low price is the essential element. An asset may have a low
 absolute dollar price, a low price compared to the past, or a low p/e ratio, but usually the price has
 to be low relative to the asset's intrinsic value for the investment to be attractive and for the risk
 to be low. It's easy for investors to get into trouble if they fail to understand the difference
 between cheapness and value.

 • Assets that are appreciating deserve your attention - Most people impute intelligence to the
 market, and thus they think rising prices signal fundamental merit. They may be attracted to
 "momentum investing," which is based on the belief that something that has been appreciating is
 likely to continue doing so. But the truth is, the higher the price (everything else being equal), the
 less attractive an asset is. Momentum investing works until it stops, at which time the things that
 have been doing worst - and may be most undervalued - take over market leadership.

 • Contrarianism will bring consistent success - It's true that the investing herd is often wrong.
 In particular, it behaves more aggressively the more prices rise, and more cautiously the more
 they fall - the opposite of what should happen. But doing the opposite of what the crowd does
 isn't a sure thing either. Much of the time there isn't anything dramatic to either do or avoid.
 Contrarianism is most effective at the extremes, and then only for those who understand what the
 herd is doing and why it's wrong. And they still have to summon the nerve to do the opposite.

 • It's important to do what feels right - The best investors know intellectually what the right
 thing to do is. But while this knowledge gives them comfort, they have to tamp down their
 feelings in order to follow it. The best ideas are ones others haven't tumbled to, and as I wrote in
 "Dare to Be Great," "Non-consensus ideas have to be lonely. By definition, non-consensus ideas
 that are popular, widely held or intuitively obvious are an oxymoron. . . . Most great
 investments begin in discomfort." Good investors are subjected to the same misleading
 influences and emotions as everyone else. They're just more capable of keeping them under
 control.

 • Assets with greater liquidity are safer - Greater liquidity generally means you can get out of an
 asset easier and closer to the price of the last trade. But first, liquidity can dry up when other
 investors change their mind about the asset. And second, the theoretical ability to get out when
 you want says nothing about fundamental safety and relatively little about investment safety in
 the long run. It's much safer to be in well-analyzed assets with good fundamentals and attractive
 prices, in which case you can hold for a long time without needing to exit. The best defense
 against a lack of liquidity is arranging your affairs so there's little need for it.

 • The level of risk in a portfolio can be kept low by applying a simple formulaic process -
 Rather, risk comes in many forms and they can be overlapping, contrasting and hard to manage.
 For example, as I said in "Risk Revisited," efforts to reduce the risk of losing money invariably
 increase the risk of missing out on gains, and efforts to reduce fundamental risk by buying higher-
 quality assets often increase valuation risk, given that higher-quality assets often sell at elevated
 valuation metrics.

What does the above consist of? It's a collection of time-honored bromides that range from (a) only
effective part of the time to (b) just plain wrong. These investment myths are pervasive but of little help.
That fact leaves the investor to struggle in a complex, challenging environment.

Recent Experience

The recent volatility in the world's markets, the S&P 500's 11% drop between August 17 and 25, and the
decline of nearly 40% in Chinese equities have given investors an opportunity to experience something
else that's not easy: portfolio management under adverse conditions. A few lessons are worth noting,
none of which are always easy to employ:

 • Emotion is one of the investor's greatest enemies. Fear makes it hard to remain optimistic about
 holdings whose prices are plummeting, just as envy makes it hard to refrain from buying the
 appreciating assets that everyone else is enjoying owning. As I mentioned just above, everyone is
 buffeted by the same influences and emotions. Superior investors may not be insulated, but
 they manage to act as if they are.

 • Confidence is one of the key emotions, and I attribute a lot of the market's recent volatility to a
 swing from too much of it a short while ago to too little more recently. The swing may have
 resulted from disillusionment: it's particularly painful when investors recognize that they
 know far less than they had thought about how the world works. In this case, when China's
 growth slowed, its currency depreciated and its market corrected, I think a lot of investors
 realized they don't know what the implications of these things are for the economies of the U.S.
 and the world. It's important to remain moderate as to confidence, but instead it's usually the
 case that confidence - like other emotions - swings radically.

 • Especially during downdrafts, many investors impute intelligence to the market and look to it to
 tell them what's going on and what to do about it. This is one of the biggest mistakes you can
 make. As Ben Graham pointed out, the day-to-day market isn't a fundamental analyst; it's
 a barometer of investor sentiment. You just can't take it too seriously. Market participants
 have limited insight into what's really happening in terms of fundamentals, and any intelligence
 that could be behind their buys and sells is obscured by their emotional swings. It would be
 wrong to interpret the recent worldwide drop as meaning the market "knows" tough times lay
 ahead. Rather, China came out with some negative news and people panicked, especially

 Chinese investors who had bought stocks on margin and perhaps were experiencing their first
 serious market correction. Their selling prompted investors in the U.S. and elsewhere to sell also,
 believing that the market decline in China signaled serious implications for the Chinese economy
 and others. The analysis of fundamentals and valuation should dictate an investor's
 behavior, not the actions of others. If you let the investing herd - which determines market
 movements - tell you what to do, how can you expect to outperform?

 • While China was the "proximate cause" of the volatility, other things often contribute, and last
 month was no exception. The word that always comes to mind for me is "confluence."
 Investors can usually keep their heads in the face of one negative. But when they face more
 than one simultaneously, they often lose their cool. One additional negative last month was the
 glitch in Bank of New York Mellon's SunGard software, and the bank's consequent inability to
 price 1,200 mutual funds and ETFs that it administers. It was another dose of disillusionment: no
 one enjoys learning that the market mechanisms they need to work can't be depended on.

 • In good times - perhaps emulating Warren Buffett - investors talk about how much they'd like to
 see the stocks they own decline in price, since it would allow them to add to positions at lower
 levels. But when prices collapse, the chance to average down is usually a lot less welcome
 . . . and a lot harder to act on.

 • Investors can be tempted to sell during corrections like this one. Oftentimes emotional behavior
 is cloaked in intelligent-sounding rationalizations like "it's important to sell down to your
 comfort level." But the valid reasons to sell are principally because you feel fundamentals have
 deteriorated or because the price has risen enough. Selling to get more comfortable as prices
 fall (just like buying for that purpose in a rising market) has nothing to do with the
 relationship between price and value.

 • Another reason to sell, of course, is fear that the slide will continue. But if you're tempted to do
 so, ask yourself first whether you think the stock market is going to rise or fall tomorrow, and
 second how much you'd bet on it. If you can tackle those decisions in your head rather than your
 gut, you'll probably admit you have no idea what's going to happen in the short term.

 • Regardless of the outlook for fundamentals or the relationship between price and value, many
 people sell in a downdraft because, well, you have to do something, and they feel it's
 unreasonably passive to just sit there. But something about which I feel strongly is that it's
 not the things you buy and sell that make you money; it's the things you hold. Of course you
 have to buy things in order to hold them. But my point is that transactions merely adjust what
 you own, and engaging in them doesn't necessarily increase potential profit. Sticking with what
 you own may be enough - although it may not be easy in tough times.

 • In my memo on liquidity in March, I borrowed an idea from my son Andrew: If you look
 longingly at the chart for a stock that has risen for twenty years, think about how many days there
 were when you would've had to talk yourself out of selling. That's not always easy. Two of the
 main reasons people sell stocks are because they go up and because they go down. When they go
 up, people who hold them become afraid that if they don't sell, they'll give back their profit, kick
 themselves, and be second-guessed by their bosses and clients. And when they go down, they
 worry that they'll fall further.

 There may be absolutely no intellectual justification for that feeling. If you liked it a month ago
 at $80, should you sell it now just because it's at $60? The best way to get through a
 downdraft is to verify your thesis, tighten your seatbelt and hang on. If you sell just
 because there's a downdraft (or an updraft), you'll never get that twenty-year winner.
 When you look closely, you'll see that every twenty-year rise included a lot of ups and downs.
 To enjoy long-term success, you have to hold through them.

 • A lot has been written of late about reduced liquidity in the current investment environment, in
 part a result of restrictions under the Volcker rule. This may have contributed to last month's
 volatility, but it should be viewed as having exacerbated the short-term pain, not as altering the
 long-term fundamentals.

Coping with a declining market seems easy ahead of time, since emotions aren't in play and investors
know what they should do. It's only when prices start falling in earnest, as they have recently, that it
turns out to be harder than expected.

So What Will Work?

Superior investing isn't easy. I've set forth a number of examples of its complexity, and a long list of
simplistic rules that can't be depended on. Among the many things that keep investing from being easy is
the fact that no tactic works every time. Almost every tool an investor might employ is a two-edged
sword. Here's how I put it last year in "Dare to Be Great II":

 • If you invest, you will lose money if the market declines.
 • If you don't invest, you will miss out on gains if the market rises.

 • Market timing will add value if it can be done right.
 • Buy-and-hold will produce better results if timing can't be done right.

 • Aggressiveness will help when the market rises but hurt when it falls.
 • Defensiveness will help when the market falls but hurt when it rises.

 • If you concentrate your portfolio, your mistakes will kill you.
 • If you diversify, the payoff from your successes will be diminished.

 • If you employ leverage, your successes will be magnified.
 • If you employ leverage, your mistakes will be magnified.

 Each of these pairings indicates symmetry. None of the tactics listed will add value if it's
 right but not subtract if it's wrong. Thus none of these tactics, in and of itself, can hold
 the secret to dependably above average investment performance.

 There's only one thing in the investment world that isn't two-edged, and that's
 "alpha": superior insight or skill. Skill can help in both up markets and down markets.
 And by making it more likely that your decisions are right, superior skill can increase the
 expected benefit from concentration and leverage. But that kind of superior skill by
 definition is rare and elusive. . . .

 Why should superior profits be available to the novice, the untutored or the lazy?
 Why should people be able to make above average returns without hard work and above
 average skill, and without knowing something most others don't know? And yet many
 individuals invest based on the belief that they can. (If they didn't believe that, wouldn't
 they index or, at a minimum, turn over the task to others?)

 No, the solution can't lie in rigid tactics, publicly available formulas or loss-eliminating
 rules . . . or in complete risk avoidance. Superior investment results can only stem
 from a better-than-average ability to figure out when risk taking will lead to gain
 and when it will end in loss. There is no alternative.

Superior skill is an essential ingredient if superior investment results are to be achieved reliably. No
tactic or technique will lead to superior results in the absence of superior judgment and
implementation. But by definition, only a small percentage of investors possess superior skill.

It is mathematically irrefutable that (a) the average investor will produce before-fee performance in line
with the market average and (b) active management fees will pull the average investor's return below the
market average. This has to be considered in light of the fact that average performance can generally be
obtained through passive investing, with tiny fees and almost no risk of falling short.

Superior investors and their well-thought-out approaches can produce superior returns on average in the
long run. But even they are far from perfect. The best they can hope for is that they'll be right more
often than they're wrong, and that their successful decisions will add more than their mistakes subtract.

So, in the end, there's only one absolute truth about investing. Charlie's right: it isn't easy.


Memo: Inspiration from the World of Sports.

I'm constantly intrigued by the parallels between investing and sports. They're illuminating as well as
fun, and thus they've prompted two past memos: "How the Game Should Be Played" (May 1995) and
"What's Your Game Plan?" (September 2003). In the latter memo, I listed five ways in which investing
is like sports:

 It's competitive - some succeed and some fail, and the distinction is clear.
 It's quantitative - you can see the results in black and white.
 It's a meritocracy - in the long term, the better returns go to the superior investors.
 It's team-oriented - an effective group can accomplish more than one person.
 It's satisfying and enjoyable - but much more so when you win.

Another angle on the investing/sports analogy has since occurred to me: an investment career can feel like
a basketball or football game with an unlimited number of quarters. We may be nearing December 31
with a substantial year-to-date return or a big lead over our benchmarks or competitors, but when January
1 rolls around, we have to tackle another year. Our record isn't finalized until we leave the playing field
for good. Or as Yogi Berra put it, "It ain't over till it's over." It was Yogi's passing in late September
that inspired this memo. [Since most of the references in this memo are to American sports, with their
peculiarities and unique terminology, this is a good time for an apology to anyone who's unfamiliar with
them.]

Yogi Berra, Baseball Player

Lawrence "Yogi" Berra was a catcher on New York Yankees baseball teams for eighteen years, from
1946 to 1963. Although he was rarely number one in any offensive category, he often ranked among the
top ten players in runs batted in, home runs, extra-base hits (doubles, triples and home runs), total bases
gained and slugging percentage (total bases gained per at bat). He excelled even more on defense: in the
1950s he was regularly among the top three or four catchers in terms of putouts, assists, double plays
turned, stolen bases allowed and base stealers thrown out.

Yogi was selected to play in the All-Star Game every year from 1948 through 1962. He was among the
top three vote-getters for American League Most Valuable Player every year from 1950 through 1956,
and he was chosen as MVP in three of those years. The Yankee teams on which he played won the
American League pennant and thus represented the league in the World Series fourteen times, and they
won the World Series ten times. He was an important part of one of the greatest dynasties in the history
of sports.

To me, the thing that stands out most is Yogi's consistency. Not only did he perform well in so many
different categories, but also:

 He led the American League in number of games played at the grueling catcher position eight
 years in a row.

 He was regularly among the catchers with the fewest passed balls and errors committed.
 He had around 450-650 at bats most years, but over his entire career he averaged only 24
 strikeouts per year, and there was never one in which he struck out more than 38 times. (In 1950
 he did so only 12 times in nearly 600 at bats.) Thus, ten times between 1948 and 1959 he was
 among the ten players with the fewest strikeouts per plate appearance.

In short, Yogi rarely messed up.

Consistency and minimization of error are two of the attributes that characterized Yogi's career, and they
can also be key assets for superior investors. They aren't the only ways for investors to excel: some great
ones strike out a lot but hit home runs in bunches the way Reggie Jackson did. Reggie - nicknamed "Mr.
October" because of his frequent heroics in the World Series - was one of the top home run hitters of all
time. But he also holds the record for the most career strikeouts, and his ratio of strikeouts to home runs
was four times Yogi's: 4.61 versus 1.16. Consistency and minimization of error have always ranked
high among my priorities and Oaktree's, and they still do.

Yogi Berra, Philosopher

Although Yogi was one of the all-time greats, his baseball achievements may be little-remembered by the
current generation of fans, and few non-sports lovers are aware of them. He's probably far better known
for the things he said:

 It's like déjà vu all over again.
 When you come to a fork in the road, take it.
 You can observe a lot by just watching.
 Always go to other people's funerals, otherwise they won't come to yours.
 I knew the record would stand until it was broken.
 The future ain't what it used to be.
 You wouldn't have won if we'd beaten you.
 I never said most of the things I said.

I've cited Yogi's statements in previous memos, and I borrowed the Yogi-ism at the top of the list above
for the title of one in 2012. "Out of the mouths of babes," they say, comes great wisdom. The same was
true for this uneducated baseball player, and many of Yogi's seeming illogicalities turn out to be profound
upon more thorough examination.

"Baseball is ninety percent mental and the other half is physical." That was another of Yogi's dicta, and I
think it's highly useful when thinking about investing. Ninety percent of the effort to outperform may
consist of financial analysis, but you need to put another fifty percent into understanding human behavior.
The market is made up of people, and to beat it you have to know them as well as you do the thing
you're considering investing in.

I sometimes give a presentation called, "The Human Side of Investing." Its main message surrounds just
that: while investing draws on knowledge of accounting, economics and finance, it also requires insight
into psychology. Why? Because investors' objectivity and rationality rarely prevail as much as
investment theory assumes, and emotion and "human nature" often take over instead. That's why my
presentation is subtitled, "In theory there's no difference between theory and practice. In practice
there is." Yogi said that, too, and I think it's absolutely wonderful.

Things often fail to work the way investment theory says they should. Markets are supposed to be
efficient, with no underpricings to find or overpricings to avoid, making it impossible to outperform. But
exceptions arise all the time, and they're usually attributable more to human failings than to math
mistakes or overlooked data.

And that leads me to one of the most thought-provoking Yogi-isms, concerning his choice of restaurant:
"Nobody goes there anymore because it's too crowded." What could be more nonsensical? If nobody
goes there, how can it be crowded? And if it's crowded, how can you say nobody goes there?

But as I wrote last month in "It's Not Easy," a lot of accepted investment wisdom makes similarly little
sense. And perhaps the greatest - and most injurious - of all is the near-unanimous enthusiasm that's
behind most bubbles.

"Everyone knows it's a great buy," they say. That, too, makes no sense. If everyone believes it's a
bargain, how can it not have been bought up by the crowd and had its price lifted to non-bargain
status as a result? You and I know the things all investors find desirable are unlikely to represent good
investment opportunities. But aren't most bubbles driven by the belief that they do?

 In 1968, everyone knew the Nifty Fifty stocks of the best companies in America represented
 compelling value, even after their p/e ratios had reached 80 or 90. That belief kept them there . . .
 for a while.

 In 2000, everyone thought tech investing was infallible and tech stocks could only rise. And they
 were sure the Internet would change the world and the stocks of Internet companies were good
 buys at any price. That's what took the TMT boom to its zenith.

 And here in 2015, everyone knows social media companies will own the future. But will their
 valuations turn out to be warranted?

Logically speaking, the bargains that everyone has come to believe in can't still be bargains . . . but
that doesn't stop people from falling in love with them nevertheless. Yogi was right in indirectly
highlighting the illogicality of "common knowledge." As long as people's reactions to things fail to be
reasonable and measured, the spoils will go to those who are able to recognize this contradiction.

Looking for Lance Dunbar

There may be a few folks in America who, like the rest of the world's population, are unaware of the
growing popularity of daily fantasy football. In this on-line game, contestants assemble imaginary
football teams staffed by real professional players. When that week's actual football games are played,
the participants receive "fantasy points" based on their players' real-world accomplishments, and the
participants with the most points win cash prizes. (Why is it okay to engage in interstate betting on
fantasy football but not on football itself? Because proponents were able to convince the authorities that
the act of picking a team for fantasy football qualifies it as a game of skill, not chance. But last week,
Nevada became the sixth state to ban daily fantasy sports, concluding that it's really nothing but
gambling.) The commercials for fantasy football say things like, "Sign up, make your picks, and
collect your winnings." That sounds awfully easy . . . and not that different from discount brokers'
ads during bull markets.

In daily fantasy football, the challenge comes from the fact that the participants have a limited amount of
money to spend and want to acquire the best possible team for it. If all players were priced the same

regardless of their ability (a completely inefficient market), the prize would go to the participant
who's most able to identify talented players. And if all players were priced precisely in line with
their ability (a completely efficient market), it would be impossible to acquire a more talented team
for the same budget, so winning would hinge on random developments.

The market for players in fantasy football appears to be less than completely efficient. Thus participants
have the possibility of finding mispricings. A star may be overpriced, so that he produces few fantasy
points per dollar spent on him. And a journeyman might be underpriced, able to produce more rushing
(i.e., running) yards, catches, tackles or touchdowns than are reflected by his price. That's where the
parallel to investing comes in.

Smart fantasy football participants understand that the goal isn't to acquire the best players, or
players with the lowest absolute price tags, but players whose "salaries" understate their merit -
those who are underpriced relative to their potential and might amass more points in the next game than
the cost to draft them reflects. Likewise, smart investors know the goal isn't to find the best
companies, or stocks with the lowest absolute dollar prices or p/e ratios, but the ones whose
potential isn't fully reflected in their price. In both of these competitive arenas, the prize goes to
those who see value others miss.

There's another similarity. Sports media employ "experts" to cover this imaginary football league, and
it's their job to attract viewers and readers by offering advice on which players to draft. (What other
talking heads does that remind you of?) My musings on fantasy football started in late September, when I
heard a TV commentator urge that participants take a look at Lance Dunbar, a running back for the Dallas
Cowboys, based on the belief that Dunbar's price might understate his potential to earn fantasy points.
The commentator's thesis was that the Cowboys' star quarterback was injured and, because of the
replacement quarterback's playing style, Dunbar might get more opportunities - and run up more yardage
- than his price implied. Thus, Dunbar might represent an underappreciated investment opportunity.

Or not. Dunbar tore his anterior cruciate ligament in the next game, meaning he won't produce any more
points - real or virtual - this season. It just proves that even if your judgment is sound, randomness has a
lot of influence on outcomes. You never know which way the ball will bounce.

"Sign up, make your picks, and collect your winnings." If only everyone - fantasy football entrants
and investors alike - understood it's not that easy.

Are the Helpers Any Help?

In investing, there are a lot of people who'll offer to enhance your results . . . for a fee. In an allegorical
treatment in Berkshire Hathaway's 2005 annual report, Warren Buffett called them "Helpers." There are
helpers in sports, too, especially where there's betting. This memo gives me a chance to discuss an
invaluable clipping on the subject that I collected nine months ago and have been looking for an occasion
to mention.

The New York Post's sports writers opine weekly as to which professional football games readers should
bet on (real games, not fantasy). Each week, the Post reports on the results of the prognostications for the
season to date. When they published the results last December 28, they might have thought they
demonstrated the value of those helpers. But I think that tabulation - nearly at the end of the football
season - showed something very different.

By the time December 28 had rolled around, the eleven forecasters had tried to predict the winner of each
of the 237 games that had been played to date, as well as what they thought were their 47 or so "best
bets." By "the winner," I assume they meant the team that would win net of the bookies' "point spread."
(Without doing something to even the odds, it would be too easy for bettors to win by backing the
favorites. To make betting more of a challenge, the bookies establish a spread for each game: the number
of points by which the favored team has to beat the underdog in order to be deemed the winner for betting
purposes.) How often were the Post's picks correct? Here's the answer:

 Percentage correct Total picks (2,607 games) Best bets (522 games)

An incorrigible optimist - or perhaps the Post - might say these results show what a good job the
forecasters did as a group, since some were right more often than they were wrong. But that's not the
important thing. For me, the key conclusions are these:

 The average results certainly make it seem that picking football winners (net of the points spread)
 is just a 50/50 proposition. Evidently, the folks who establish the point spreads are pretty good at
 their job, so that it's hard to know which team will win.

 The symmetrical distribution of the results and the way they cluster around 50% tell me there
 isn't much skill in predicting football winners (or, if it exists, these pickers don't have it). The
 small deviations from 50% - both positive and negative - suggest that picking winning football
 teams for betting purposes may be little more than a matter of tossing a coin.

 Even the best forecasters weren't right much more than half the time. While I'm not a
 statistician, I doubt the fact that a few people were right on 56-58% of their picks rather than 50%
 proves it was skill rather than luck. Going back to the coin, if you flipped one 47 times (or even
 237 times), you might occasionally get 58% heads.

 Lastly, all eleven writers collectively - and seven of them individually - had worse results on
 the games they considered their "best bets" than on the rest of the games. So clearly they
 aren't able to accurately assess the validity of their own forecasts.

And remember, these forecasts weren't made by members of the general populace, but rather by
people who make their living following and writing about sports.

My favorite quotation on the subject of forecasts comes from John Kenneth Galbraith: "We have two
classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who don't know they don't know." Clearly
these forecasters don't know. But do they know it? And do their readers?

The bottom line on picking football winners seems to be that the average forecaster is right half the time,
with exceptions that are relatively few in number, insignificant in degree and possibly the result of luck.
He might as well flip a coin. And that brings us back to investing, since I find this analogous to the

observation that the average investor's return equals the market average. He, too, might as well
flip a coin . . . or invest in an index fund.

And by the way, the average participant's average result - in both fields - is before transaction costs and
fees. After costs, the average investor's return is below that of the market. In that same vein, after
costs the average football bettor doesn't break even.

What costs? In sports betting, we're not talking about management fees or brokerage commissions, but
"vigorish" or "the vig." Wikipedia says it's "also known as juice, the cut or the take . . . the amount
charged by a bookmaker . . . for taking a bet from a gambler." This obscure term refers to the fact that to
try to win $10 from a bookie, you have to put up $11. You're paid $10 if you win, but you're out $11 if
you lose. N.b.: bookies and sports betting parlors aren't in business to provide a public service.

If you bet against a friend and win half the time, you end up even. But if you bet against a bookie or a
betting parlor and win half the time, on average you lose 10% of the amount wagered on every other bet.
So at $10 per game, a bettor following the Post's football helpers through December 28, 2014 would have
won $13,280 on the 1,328 correct picks but lost $14,069 on the 1,279 losers. Overall, he would have lost
$789 even though slightly more than half the picks were right. That's what happens when you play in
a game where the costs are high and the edge is insufficient or non-existent.

Another Look at Performance Assessment

This memo gives me an opportunity to touch on another recent sporting event: Super Bowl XLIX, which
was played last February. I'm returning to a subject I covered at length in the "What's Real?" section in
"Pigweed" (February 2006), which was about the meltdown of a hedge fund called Amaranth. Among
the ways I tried to parse the events surrounding Amaranth was through an analogy to the Rose Bowl game
played at the end of the 2005 college football season to determine the national champion. In the game,
the University of Texas beat the favored University of Southern California. While leading by five points
with less than three minutes left to play, USC had a fourth down with two yards to go for a first down.
They lost largely because - in something other than the obvious choice - the coach elected to go for it
rather than punt the ball away, and they were stopped a yard short. UT got the ball and went on to score
the winning touchdown. Before the game, USC had widely been considered one of the greatest teams in
college football history. Afterwards there was no more talk along those lines. Its loss hinged on that one
very controversial play . . . controversial primarily because it was unsuccessful. (Had USC made the two
yards and earned a first down, they would have retained the ball and been able to run out the clock,
sealing a victory.)

Something very similar happened in this year's Super Bowl. The Seattle Seahawks were trailing the New
England Patriots by a few points. On second down, with just 26 seconds to go and one timeout
remaining, the Seahawks had the ball on the Patriots' one-yard line. Everyone was sure they would try a
run by Marshawn Lynch (who in the regular season had ranked first in the league in rushing touchdowns
and fourth in rushing yards), and that he would score the winning touchdown. But the Seahawks'
maverick coach, Pete Carroll - ironically, also the coach of USC's losing Rose Bowl team - tried a pass
play instead. The Patriots intercepted the pass, and the Seahawks' dreams of a championship ended.

"What an idiot Carroll is," the fans screamed. "Everyone knows that when you throw a pass, only three
things can happen (it's caught, it's dropped or it's intercepted) and two of them are bad." The Seahawks
lost a game they seemed to be on the verge of winning, and Carroll was vilified for being too bold and
wrong . . . again. His decision was unsuccessful. But was it wrong?

With assistance from Warren Min in Oaktree's Real Estate Department, I want to point out some of the
considerations that Carroll may have taken into account in making his decision:

 Up to that point in the season, more than 100 passes had been attempted from the one-yard line,
 and none of them had been intercepted. So Carroll undoubtedly expected that, at the very worst,
 the pass would be incomplete and the clock would stop (as it does after incomplete passes) with
 just a few seconds elapsed. That would have given the Seahawks time for one or two more plays.

 With only 26 seconds remaining and the Seahawks down to their last timeout, if they ran and
 Lynch was stopped, the clock would have kept running (as it does after rushing plays). Seattle
 would then have been forced to either use their precious timeout or try a hurried play.

 Malcolm Butler, the defender who intercepted Seattle's pass, was a rookie playing in the biggest
 game of his life, and he was undersized relative to Ricardo Lockette, the wide receiver to whom
 the pass was thrown.

 According to The Boston Globe, of Lynch's 281 carries during the 2014 regular season, 20 had
 resulted in lost yardage and two more had yielded fumbles. In other words, the Seahawks had
 experienced a setback 7.8% of the time when Lynch carried the ball. Further, Lynch had been
 handed the ball at the one-yard line five times in 2014, but he scored only once, for a success rate
 of 20%. Thus it was no sure thing that Lynch would be able to gain that needed yard against a
 defense expecting him to run.

To the first-level thinker, Carroll's decision to pass looks like a clear mistake. Maybe that's because great
running backs seem so dependable, or because passing generally seems like an uncertain proposition. Or
maybe it's just because the pass was picked off and the game lost: outcomes strongly bias perceptions.

The second-level thinker sees that the obvious call - to run - was far from sure to work, and that doing
the less-than-obvious - passing - might put the element of surprise on the Seahawks' side and represent
better clock management. Carroll made his decision and it was unsuccessful. But that doesn't prove he
was wrong.

Here's what my colleague Warren wrote me:

 The media and "talking heads" completely buried the decision to throw because of one
 data point: the pass was intercepted and the Seahawks lost the game. But I don't believe
 this was a bad decision. In fact, I think this was a very well-informed decision that more
 people possessing all the data might have made given ample time to analyze the situation.

 As you always say, you can't judge the quality of a decision based on results. If we
 somehow were able to replay this game in alternative realities to test the results, I think
 the Seahawks' decision wouldn't look so bad. But they certainly lost, perhaps because of
 bad luck. Now, similar to the USC/Texas situation, the media has written some very
 significant storylines regarding legacies:

 The Patriots secured "dynasty" status by winning four Super Bowls since 2001.
 Tom Brady, the Patriots' quarterback, is hailed as one of the greatest of all time.
 The Seahawks' defense, which was talked about as being "the greatest ever," is
 lauded no more (despite the fact that it wasn't defense that lost the game).

But should this one victory - which swung on a single play - really place the Patriots and Tom
Brady among the greatest? And was Carroll actually wrong? All of this goes back to one of my
favorite themes from Fooled by Randomness by Nassim Nicholas Taleb, for me the bible on how to
understand performance in an uncertain world.

In his book, Taleb talks about "alternative histories," which I describe as "the other things that reasonably
could have happened but didn't." Sure, the Seahawks lost the game. But they could have won, and
Carroll's decision would have made the difference in that case, too, making him the hero instead of the
goat. So rather than judge a decision solely on the basis of the outcome, you have to consider (a) the
quality of the process that led to the decision, (b) the a priori probability that the decision would
work (which is very different from the question of whether it did work), (c) the other decisions that
could have been made, (d) all of the events that reasonably could have unfolded, and thus (e) which
of the decisions had the highest probability of success.

Here's the bottom line:

 There are many subtle but logical reasons for arguing that Coach Carroll's decision made sense.
 The decision would have been considered a stroke of genius if it had been successful.
 Especially because of the role of luck, the correctness of a decision cannot necessarily be judged
 from the outcome.
 You clearly cannot assess someone's competence on the basis of a single trial.

What all the above really illustrates is the difference between superficial observation and deep, nuanced
analysis. The fact that something worked doesn't mean it was the result of a correct decision, and
the fact that something failed doesn't mean the decision was wrong. This is at least as true in
investing as it is in sports.

The Victor's Mindset

It often seems that just as I'm completing a memo, a final inspiration pops up. This past weekend, the
Financial Times carried an interesting interview with Novak Djokovic, the number one tennis player in
the world today. What caught my eye was what he said about the winner's mental state:

 I believe that half of any victory in a tennis match is in place before you step on the court.
 If you don't have that self-belief, then fear takes over. And then it will get too much
 for you to handle. It's a fine line. (Emphasis added)

Djokovic's statement reminded me of a conversation I had earlier this month, on a subject I've written
about rarely if ever: self-confidence. It ranks high among the attributes that must be present if one is to
achieve superior results.

To be above average, an athlete has to separate from the pack. To win at high-level tennis, a player has to
hit "winners" - shots his opponents can't return. They're hit so hard, so close to the lines or so low over
the net that they have the potential to end up as "unforced errors." In the absence of skill, they're unlikely
to be executed successfully, meaning it's unwise to try them. But people who possess the requisite skill
are right in attempting them in order to "play the winner's game" (see "What's Your Game Plan").

These may be analogous to investment actions that Yale's David Swensen would describe as
"uncomfortably idiosyncratic." The truth is, most great investments begin in discomfort - or, perhaps

better said, they involve doing things with which most people are uncomfortable. To achieve great
performance you have to believe in value that isn't apparent to everyone else (or else it would already be
reflected in the price); buy things that others think are risky and uncertain; and buy them in amounts large
enough that if they don't work out they can lead to embarrassment. What are examples of actions that
require self-confidence?

 Buying something at $50 and continuing to hold it - or maybe even buying more - when the price
 falls to $25 and "the market" is telling you you're wrong.
 After you've bought something at $50 (thinking it's worth $200), refusing to "prudently take
 some chips off the table" when it gets to $100.
 Going against conventional wisdom and daring to "catch a falling knife" when a company
 defaults and the price of its debt plummets.
 Buying much more of something you like than it represents in the index you're measured against,
 or entirely excluding an index component you dislike.

In each of these cases, the first-level thinker does that which is conventional and easy - and which doesn't
require much self-confidence. The second-level thinker views things differently and, as a consequence, is
willing to take actions like those described above. But they're unlikely to be done in the absence of
conviction. The great investors I know are confident second-level thinkers and entirely comfortable
diverging from the herd.

It's great for investors to have self-confidence, and it's great that it permits them to behave boldly, but
only when that self-confidence is warranted. This final qualification means that investors must
engage in brutally candid self-assessment. Hubris or over-confidence is far more dangerous than a
shortage of confidence and a resultant unwillingness to act boldly. That must be what Mark Twain had in
mind when he said, "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure
that just ain't so." And it also has to be what Novak Djokovic meant when he said, "It's a fine line."

So there you have some of the key lessons from sports:

 For most participants, success is likely to lie more dependably in discipline, consistency and
 minimization of error, rather than in bold strokes - high batting average and an absence of
 strikeouts, not the occasional, sensational home run.
 But in order to be superior, a player has to do something different from others and has to have an
 appropriate level of confidence that he can succeed at it. Without conviction he won't be able to
 act boldly and survive bouts of uncertainty and the inevitable slump.
 Because of the significant role played by randomness, a small sample of results is far from sure to
 be indicative of talent or decision-making ability.
 The goal for bettors is to see value in assets that others haven't yet recognized and that isn't
 reflected in prices.
 At first glance it seems effort and "common sense" will lead to success, but these often prove to
 be unavailing.
 In particular, it turns out that most people can't see future outcomes much better than anyone else,
 but few are aware of this limitation.
 Before a would-be participant enters any game, he should assess his chances of winning and
 whether they justify the price to play.

These lessons can serve investors very well.