Memo: Expert Opinion.

In August, I mentioned that I had chosen the title "Political Reality" for my memo in part because of my
liking for oxymorons. I classed that title with other internally contradictory statements, such as "jumbo
shrimp" and "common sense." Now I'm going to discuss one more: "expert opinion."

This memo was inspired by a thought that popped into my head when the outcome of the election settled
in. You may point out that at the end of my November 14 memo "Go Figure!," I said I wouldn't write
any more about politics. True, but I didn't say I wouldn't think about politics. Anyway, this memo isn't
about politics, it's about opinions.

Last spring I attended a dinner where one of Hillary Clinton's senior advisers was soliciting input, as she
and her campaign were struggling to come up with an effective counter to Bernie Sanders's populist
message. Most of those present expressed frustration on the subject, until an experienced, connected
Democrat assured everyone, "Don't worry. She'll win. The math is irresistible." The Hillary supporters
were relieved, and he turned out to be right: she won the nomination going away.

In late October, with the issue of Clinton's private email server and the FBI's new investigation further
dogging her, that same seasoned Democrat was asked whether the election was in jeopardy. "Don't
worry," he said. "She'll win. The math is irresistible." We all know the result.

The opinions of experts concerning the future are accorded great weight . . . but they're still just
opinions. Experts may be right more often than the rest of us, but they're unlikely to be right all the time,
or anything close to it. This year's election season gave us plenty of opportunities to see expert opinion
in action. I'll start this memo by reflecting on them.

The Year Polls Stopped Working

Pollsters got off to a tough start last year with the June referendum concerning Britain's membership in
the European Union. Right up to the end, both pollsters and bookmakers considered U.K. citizens 70%
likely to vote to remain a member. But, in the end, "Leave" won by a few percent.

The reaction was shock. Voters on both sides of the issue were unprepared for the outcome. Within a
day or two, the leaders of Britain's main political parties had stepped down. People began to seriously
discuss what that outcome meant and how "Brexit" would be accomplished.

The explanations for the pollsters' error centered around Britain's lower level of experience with, and
expertise in, polling. It couldn't happen in the U.S. In fact, in the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections,
Nate Silver, the proprietor of website FiveThirtyEight, correctly predicted the outcome in all 50 states
once and in 49 the other time.

In 2016, FiveThirtyEight estimated the odds of Hillary Clinton winning as slightly better than 50/50 as of
the end of the Republican convention in July. Then it had her as an 8-to-1 favorite in August, when the
Democrats concluded their convention and Donald Trump's perceived missteps peaked. And then it

again said she was slightly ahead just before the first presidential debate on September 26. It never made
her out to be an underdog. And on election day, it estimated that she was 71.4% likely to win.* Most
other pollsters put her chances of winning at between 80% and 99%, and only one considered Trump the
favorite.

In the end, of course, Trump won in the Electoral College by a final count of 304 to 227, despite losing
the popular vote by almost 2.9 million votes, or about 2%. In particular, he won in a number of "swing
states," such as Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, where the polls had him well behind. So much
for experts' forecasts.

Finally, rounding out the pollsters' failures in 2016, the reform referendum that Italy's Prime Minister
Matteo Renzi bet his career on - which had been considered 3% behind - lost by 20%. The outcome
wasn't a surprise, but the margin certainly was.

No one really knows why polling failed so miserably last year. Clearly there was a groundswell of
populist, anti-establishment and anti-insider sentiment, but shouldn't it have been detected? In particular,
Trump did much better than predicted (or much less badly) with a number of important groups, such as
Hispanics and college-educated women.

For some reason, in 2016 pollsters in all three countries either failed to talk to a representative sample of
voters, failed to elicit honest responses, or failed to accurately interpret the data. Thus their opinions may
be accorded less weight in the future.

So Much for the Experts

I'm struck by how dramatically opinion can flip-flop:

 During the run-up to the election, Clinton's campaign organization and "ground game" were
 considered sophisticated, efficient and unstoppable, and Trump's were thought of as rag-tag,
 underfunded and uncoordinated. Now Trump's machine is described as having been highly
 effective, and Clinton's as having missed important signs and opportunities.

 Clinton's message was thought likely to carry a lot of weight with a broad swath of the electorate,
 while Trump's was viewed as appealing deeply to a few fervent but narrow fringe constituencies
 without enough voters for him to win. After the fact, Trump is described as having had "perfect
 pitch" and Clinton as having a "tin ear."

 In particular, now it's considered to have been a big mistake for Clinton to fail to address the
 concerns of white men and set out a solution for those who lost jobs and were omitted from
 economic progress. But during the campaign, no one pointed to this error.

* It should be noted - to his credit - that Silver insisted repeatedly that Trump could win. In fact, he often
reminded his followers that the Clinton landslide most people expected was no more likely than a modest
Trump victory. Silver also entered Election Day citing a 10.5% probability that Trump would lose the
popular vote but win the presidency. We can't say he predicted that outcome, but (a) he was more
explicit about it than most and (b) he assigned a fairly material probability to an event that in the past has
been quite rare (so it can't be said that he was just extrapolating).

 Finally, up until Election Day, most observers (including me) talked about the likelihood that the
 Republican Party would emerge from the election torn between its traditional faction, the Tea
 Party conservatives, and Trump's economically disgruntled, anti-establishment supporters. That
 may turn out to be the case, but now the Democratic Party is described as being at risk as well
 because of the schism between the Clinton-type moderates and the Sanders/Warren progressives.

Here's some of what I wrote in "Go Figure!," six days after the election:

 Think back to just before last week's election. What did we know?

 The polls were almost unanimous in saying Hillary Clinton would win . . .
 There was a near-universal belief that a Trump victory - as unlikely as it was -
 would be bad for the markets.

 So what happened? First Clinton didn't win. . . . And second, the U.S. stock market had its
 best week since 2014! . . . Thus two key observations can be made based on last week's
 developments:

 First, no one really knows what events are going to transpire.
 And second, no one knows what the market's reaction to those events will be.

One of the key conclusions we should draw from the surprises of 2016 is that the pundits often failed to
understand people and their views. It's clear that people who work in the media hadn't understood many
average Americans; people with college degrees hadn't understood those without them; and people living
on the coasts and in metropolises hadn't understood the rest. Strong sentiments and beliefs swung a
pivotal election in ways the experts absolutely failed to grasp and thought were virtually impossible.

Of course there are no "facts" regarding most future events, just opinions. Experts - especially
people who are paid to be experts - often couch their statements as facts, but that doesn't mean
they're sure to come true.

And the Media?

When I was young, a limited number of media outlets were the public's primary source of
information. There were three TV networks and four local stations - no more room on the dial - and
until 1987 they were subject to the FCC's Fairness Doctrine that required broadcasters to discuss
controversial matters of public interest and air contrasting views. Edward R. Murrow, a TV news
anchor, was one of America's most respected men, and I often make reference to the time he said,
"Anyone who isn't confused doesn't really understand the situation." Walter Cronkite, Chet Huntley
and David Brinkley were similarly trusted. Newspapers may have had Democratic or Republican
leanings, but outside the editorial pages they largely avoided partisanship in covering events.

The subsequent proliferation of cable TV networks set off powerful competition for viewers. A few
chose to be full-time purveyors of news, along with some talk-radio stations. Rush Limbaugh, Roger
Ailes and Rupert Murdoch realized that a big following - and big money - could result from highly
partisan, even inflammatory, broadcasting. Radio "shock jocks" like Don Imus and Howard Stern
chipped away at standards for language and demeanor, and news and talk shows emulated them. So
now we have outspoken, boisterous speech, along with highly partisan messaging.

These days the news media shows little resemblance to what it was 30, 40 or 50 years ago. Many
outlets are highly biased to one side or the other and make it possible to read, watch and listen
all day and never be exposed to all aspects of the issues. Thus most people find something to
complain about in the media coverage of the 2016 presidential election.

Today's media personalities rarely express the confusion Murrow did. Rather, they tend to state
forecasts as certainties. When do you hear a TV commentator say "I think" or "it seems to me"?

In fact, they often remind me of the description of economists I heard in the 1970s: "portfolio
managers who never mark to market." That is, they find it easy to overlook the times when they're
wrong. In August or September of 2015, when Donald Trump was beginning to achieve success in
his pursuit of the Republican nomination, a New York Times columnist flatly stated that because
Trump couldn't stand the prospect of losing, he would drop out of the race before the primaries
began in January. We didn't see that happen . . . or any further mention of his assertion.

What to Do About the Media

Given the nature of the candidates for the presidency, the starkness of the choice, and the recent
trends in media coverage, I spent a great deal of time last year following political developments via
websites, newspapers and television coverage. Most people I know did, and you may have as well.
For many it became a preoccupation, even a mania.

My son Andrew has helped me dope out the media effects:

 Following events makes people feel they're actively involved in them and well informed.
 People think and act with more confidence when they consider themselves informed.
 But the media pundits often are no more insightful than the rest of us.
 And anyway, people tend to follow media outlets that confirm their beliefs rather than
 challenge them.
 Thus following the media experts, while entertaining, can be a waste of time intellectually.

For these reasons, I greatly enjoyed an article that appeared in the Observer on November 16, a week
after the election. It was entitled "Want to Really Make America Great Again? Stop Reading the
News." Ryan Holiday, its author, talked about what it's like to be caught up in the news cycle.

For a number of reasons, there has arisen in the media:

 . . . a system that needs more and more eyeballs for longer periods of time while
 gutting high-quality, reliable sources of information. We have more "news" but less
 original reporting than ever before, an order of magnitude more in the way of opinion
 and analysis, but as [author and academic] Tom Nichols has pointed out, somehow
 less expertise.

 Chuck Klosterman [a writer on American culture] once remarked at how strange it
 was to walk through the front offices of a football team and find that everyone there
 was watching ESPN. Didn't they have better information than the average viewer or

 reporter? Turns out, no - they're addicted to the same media we are and subject to
 the same groupthink. . . .

 Twitter isn't designed to help you get in and out with the best information as quickly
 as possible - it's supposed to suck you into either a contentious world of argument
 and debate or an echo chamber that reassures you everyone thinks like you do. . . .

 We're "participating" in the ecosystem because it's addicting and because we're
 curious.

So author Holiday came up with a useful prescription in response:

 It's not that I am going underground or completely disconnecting from current
 events. It's that I have decided I am no longer going to watch them develop in real
 time. I'm going to watch the Saints play every Sunday, [but] I'm not going to fool
 myself into thinking that tuning into "Sports Center" on Tuesday will help.

A lot of people's lives would be more tranquil and more productive if they accepted that what
the media says about an upcoming event - and whether you watch or not - won't have any
impact on the outcome.

What Do the Experts Know?

One of the reasons I crafted this memo this way is so I would have a chance to return to a subject I
introduced in 2015: the New York Post's "NFL Bettor's Guide." Each week during football season,
the Post's eleven experts advise its readers as to which teams to bet on. Here's how the experts did
over the full 17-week season, covering 256 games:

 The best picker was right 55.1% of the time.
 The worst picker was right 48.8% of the time.
 On average the pickers were right 51.6% of the time.

The experts further help readers by specifying up to three "best bets" each week. Here's how they
did on their strongest picks:

 The best picker was right 62.7% of the time.
 The worst picker was right 43.1% of the time.
 On average the pickers were right 54.0% of the time.

The available observations from this data are as follows:

 The way the overall results are distributed around 50/50 suggests the experts' process is little
 more than a coin toss.
 On average the experts were right just 2.4% more often on their "best bets" than on all their
 picks.
 Two of the experts did worse on their "best bets" than on their other picks.

 Eight of the eleven pickers were right more than half the time. But since it costs about 5%
 per week on average to bet with the bookies, virtually none of the eleven experts' overall
 picks added value after fees (sound familiar?). Even the average of the experts' "best
 bets" wouldn't have produced a positive return after fees.

Two additional observations:

 In week 16, all eleven of the experts predicted the favored New York Giants would beat the
 Philadelphia Eagles, and five of the eleven thought the underdog New York Jets would beat
 the New England Patriots (in both cases, after adjusting the scores for the "point spread" that
 the bookies impose to equalize the two teams' chances of winning). When the games were
 played, the favored Giants lost by five points (meaning they did even worse after the 21⁄2-
 point spread was subtracted from their score), and the Jets (who were expected to lose by
 161⁄2 points) lost by 38 instead. In other words, (a) the experts may have been heavily biased
 in favor of the New York teams and (b) they were wrong 73% of the time on these two
 games.

 Bettors also have the option to bet on the "over/under" in a game - that is, whether the two
 teams' combined score will exceed or fall short of a threshold set by the bookies. It's just
 another way for bettors to get "action." The results show the experts were right in 128 games
 (52% of the time) and wrong in 123 (there were five ties). Again no value added, especially
 after fees.

If economists won't publish their performance data, the Post at least performs a service by showing
how its football experts did. The bottom line is that their opinions are of little help, and the related
coverage omits all discussion of their lack of predictive value.

The Importance of the Macro

Interest in "macro" has amped up meaningfully over the last dozen years or so. I think it largely
started with the increased activism on the part of the Greenspan Fed, and investors' heightened
interest in it. Today many analysts seem preoccupied with central bank behavior, government
actions, trends in interest rates and currencies, and the movement of markets, as opposed to the
fortunes of individual companies.

These things are almost all we hear about. And most people think knowledge regarding the outlook
for them holds the key to investment success. Thus I want to make this a major topic here.

Since I speak a lot to clients, prospects, CFA societies and student groups, I get a lot of chances to
hear what's on people's minds. And usually they focus on a relatively small number of questions.
Over the last few years, the ones I've gotten most often have been these:

 What month will the Fed raise interest rates?
 What could go wrong in the economy or the market?
 What inning are we in?
 And in each country I visit, how's the outlook for that country?

When will the Fed raise interest rates? - On May 22, 2013, in testimony to Congress, then Fed
Chairman Ben Bernanke surprised the world by saying, "If we see continued improvement, and we
have confidence that that is going to be sustained, in the next few meetings we could take a step
down in our pace of purchases [of bonds]. . . ." By indicating the Fed could "taper" its bond buying
- the quantitative easing that was an important part of its stimulus program - Bernanke was
foreshadowing that interest rates, which had been suppressed for years, would begin to rise.

Ever since then, people have been preoccupied with when interest rate increases would take place,
and that's the question I've been asked most often. My response has been consistent: How would I
know, and why do you care?

First, how would I know? I always point out that I'm not an economist or Fed watcher. And I don't
think economists or Fed watchers know the answer, either. No one consistently knows the timing of
these things in advance, in particular because the Fed itself probably doesn't know.

But more importantly, why would anyone care? If I say December, I ask them, what actions would
you take? And if I changed that to March, would you do something different? The idea that you
would do something different with a March expectation rather than a December expectation ignores
the likelihood that the expectation of a March rate rise would begin to be reflected in asset prices
well before March. That means the likely date of a rate rise is not a very useful piece of information.

What could go wrong? - For years it has felt to most people that we've been in a Goldilocks
environment: neither too hot nor too cold. The economy hasn't grown slowly enough to cause
recession or deflation, or fast enough to bring on hyperinflation and the need for restrictive action.
The markets have been strong enough to bode well, but not so strong as to suggest a bubble. Ditto
for investor psychology.

Most people don't want to tempt fate by saying things will go well forever, and in fact they know
they won't. It's just that they can't decide what it is that will go wrong. The truth is that while I can
enumerate them, the obvious candidates (changes in oil prices, interest rates, exchange rates, etc.) are
likely to already be anticipated and largely priced in. It's the surprises no one can anticipate that
would move markets most if they were to happen. But (a) most people can't imagine them and (b)
most of the time they don't happen. That's why they're called surprises.

So I can guess at "improbable disasters" like acts of war, disinflation or a sudden seizing up of the
economy, but they're unlikely to happen, and I don't know much more about them than anyone else.
The greatest single influence of the last three years was doubtless the 75% decline in the price of oil
from June 2014 to February 2016. But who predicted it?

In my memo "It's All Good" (July 2007), on the doorstep of the financial crisis, I insisted that the
good times couldn't roll on forever. But I didn't know it was sub-prime mortgages that would be the
catalyst for a turn for the worst, and when I listed my candidates, I ended with "the things I haven't
thought of." That's still about the best I can do . . . or most others, it seems.

What inning are we in? - Perhaps no one can say just what it is that will ring the bell on today's
positive trends, but people still want to know how advanced we are in the process, and thus when it
will come to an end. People began to ask me what inning we're in during the financial crisis of 2008,
and they've continued ever since.

First of all - admittedly I'm being picky here - people rarely specify which game they're asking
about. Is it the economic recovery, the credit expansion, the string of low-default years, the upswing
in investor psychology, or the stock market rise? Certainly the answer could be different for each.

But, more importantly, the question assumes we know how long each game will go on. A standard
baseball game consists of nine innings, so "second inning," "sixth" or "ninth" has a clear meaning.
But with the things we're wondering about here, we never know how long the game will run.

So rather than "what inning," I'd suggest investors ask whether things are or are not in an
extended state. Is psychology depressed, average or euphoric? Is the capital market shut tight,
normal or unthinkingly generous? These are questions that can be answered in a helpful way, not
how close the game is to being over. No one knows the answer to the latter.

What's the outlook for country xyz? - The bottom line for me here is that people tend to confuse
general intelligence, good investment records, expertise in specific areas, and all-around insight.
Thus I'll reiterate that I'm no economist (and even if I were, my chances of being right would be
limited). And then I'll add that being experienced as an investor and even hopefully intelligent says
nothing about being able to divine a specific country's macro potential.

After I spend a day or two in a country, people often ask for my conclusions. But in the course of my
visits, I generally (a) visit only big cities, (b) meet only with financial types, and (c) spend more time
answering questions than gathering information. In fact, on one recent visit I responded to the usual
question by telling my audience that I hoped each member knew more about their country than I did.
I sometimes gain visceral impressions of the countries I visit, but they're usually data-lite and likely
to come true only in the longest run, if at all.

Implications of the Election

Of course, the U.S. presidential election was the biggest story of 2016, and it brought me endless
questions. Who would win? I'd read the same polls as everyone else, lived on the coasts, and
reached the same conclusions. I could bring no unique insight on the basis of which to question the
likelihood of a Clinton victory.

How would the two candidates differ as president? It didn't take any brilliance to conclude that a
Clinton administration would be quite predictable and operate within rather narrow boundaries, while
anything was possible from a Trump presidency - in some cases better than a Clinton one, but also
with considerable potential for worse.

I was in Australia on Election Day and just after, and questions about the implications started
immediately. In fact, they're what inspired me to write "Go Figure!" over the following weekend in
Seoul. In it, I described the following questions as being open:

 How much of what Trump said while campaigning did he mean?
 How much of what he actually meant will he try to implement?
 And how much of what he tries to implement will he be able to effect?

We still don't have answers. As for the markets, it's clear Trump intends to be a very pro-business
president. But what actions he'll take and whether they'll succeed is very much up in the air.

Of course, only nine weeks have elapsed since the election. Any expert who tells you what's in store
from the Trump administration - or from Britain's departure from the EU; Italy without reform and
Renzi; the Indian economy with 85% of its currency cancelled (the highest-denomination notes, 500
and 1000 rupees, were declared no longer legal tender in order to rein in corruption and the
underground economy); or the coming elections in France and Germany - is talking through his hat.

My Opinion of Opinions

Since I've discussed these things at great length over the years, I'll try here to sum up succinctly:

 There are no facts about the future, just opinions. Anyone who asserts with conviction what
 he thinks will happen in the macro future is overstating his foresight, whether out of
 ignorance, hubris or dishonesty.

 Developments in economies, interest rates, currencies and markets aren't the result of
 scientific processes. The involvement in them of people - with their emotions, foibles and
 biases - renders them highly unpredictable. As physicist Richard Feynman put it, "Imagine
 how much harder physics would be if electrons had feelings!"

 It's one thing to have opinions on these subjects, but something very different to be confident
 they're right (and act on them).

 Taking bold action based on forecasts of things that are uncertain isn't just misguided; it's
 dangerous. As Mark Twain said, "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble.
 It's what you know for certain that just ain't true."

 Everyone at Oaktree has opinions on the macro. And when we see extremes in markets and,
 especially, capital market behavior, we're apt to take strong action. But we're highly aware
 of what we don't know, and when conditions are moderate or indistinct, we don't bet heavily.

I'll end this section by sharing my latest epiphany on the macro. I realized recently that in my early
decades in the investment business, change came so slowly that people tended to think of the
environment as a fixed context in which cycles played out regularly and dependably. But starting
about twenty years ago - keyed primarily by the acceleration in technological innovation - things
began to change so rapidly that the fixed-backdrop view may no longer be applicable.

Now forces like technological developments, disruption, demographic change, political instability
and media trends give rise to an ever-changing environment, as well as to cycles that no longer
necessarily resemble those of the past. That makes the job of those who dare to predict the macro
more challenging than ever.

What about Facts?

While I take a dim view of forecasts, and especially of opinions presented as facts, I do believe there
are such things as facts. Unfortunately, however, the concept of "facts" is among the casualties of
the increasingly partisan environment. Recently we have seen both the elevation in status of
"non-facts," as well as the tearing down of "real facts."

"Fake news" emerged as a significant issue in 2016. Some people believe it influenced the
election. Ease of access to social media makes it quite simple to create and disseminate statements
that others will believe, even if they're total fabrications. The pizzeria fronting for a child-abuse ring
led by Hillary Clinton is just one of 2016's wilder examples. I expect to see continuing discussion of
the proper role of social media in taking down untrue posts, and of the conflict between defending
freedom of expression and preventing the publication of falsehoods.

At the same time, I'm concerned about the disappearance of real facts. Nowadays it seems
almost anything can be characterized as questionable. There's broad agreement among scientists that
humans play a significant role in climate change - as there is among sitting world leaders - and yet
we hear this idea dismissed as "a matter of opinion." The other day I heard a former U.S. Senator
who now leads a policy think tank describe as "fake news" a Congressional Budget Office report
with which his organization takes issue. If the non-partisan CBO isn't accepted as objective and
truthful, who will be?

In a time of raging partisanship, disrespect for experts, and drastically debased standards for
discourse, is there such a thing as a fact? Can there be no distinction between opinion, fact and
fake fact? Can there be a figure everyone trusts, another Edward R. Murrow? Can any statement be
safe from disparagement even though it's not 100% measurable and provable? Is history subject to
unlimited revision if there are no video images? What will our grandchildren be taught is the
meaning of the word "true"? What authorities will they trust? We certainly live in interesting times.

Macro Investor Performance

The acid test of an investment strategy is whether it produces good results. So here we are: first,
"everyone knows" macro is a key determinant of investor performance these days, and second, there
have been a lot of significant macro developments of late, providing opportunities for those with
foresight to apply their predictive powers. Thus the ingredients have been in place for significant
gains on the part of macro-oriented investors.

Let's take a look at the results for two Hedge Fund Research macro fund indices and compare them
against the HFR index of all hedge funds:
 Periods ended November 30, 2016

Annualized Net Returns 1 year 3 years 5 years
* Macro funds run by individuals, not algorithms

While the average hedge fund's return has been puny, I think it's fair to say the average macro fund's
return has been seriously deficient. In fact, the average macro fund's net return may not have
been statistically different from zero. Thus, based on the indices, it's hard to say managers paid to
profit from macro developments have done so.

The Last Word

To close, I'll weave together a few recent inputs:

First, I had dinner with Warren Buffett about a year ago, and he pointed out that for a piece of
information to be worth pursuing, it should be important, and it should be knowable. These
days, investors are clamoring more than ever for insights regarding the macro future, because it's
important: it moves markets. But there's a hitch: Warren and I both consider these things largely
unknowable. He rarely bases his investment actions on them, and neither does Oaktree.

Second, I want to include a final paragraph from the Observer article about the media that I
mentioned earlier. I think it's golden:

 "If you wish to improve," Epictetus [first-century Greek philosopher] once said,
 "be content to appear clueless or stupid in extraneous matters." One of the most
 powerful things we can do as a human being in our hyperconnected, 24/7 media
 world is say: "I don't know." Or more provocatively, "I don't care." Not about
 everything, of course - just most things. Because most things don't matter, and most
 news stories aren't worth tracking. (Emphasis added)

Finally, I want to describe a great phone call I received this past spring, from a sell-side economist I
worked with in the early '70s and have stayed in touch with since. "You've changed my life," he
said. "I've stopped making forecasts. I study data and report on my inferences. But I no longer
express opinions about the future." Mission accomplished.

Bonus section: I've been collecting (and recycling) quotations for almost forty years, more of them
concerning forecasts than anything else. Here are five of the very best. Together they say virtually
everything that has to be said on the subject:

 We have two classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who don't
 know they don't know.

 - John Kenneth Galbraith

 No amount of sophistication is going to allay the fact that all of your knowledge is
 about the past and all your decisions are about the future.

 - Ian Wilson (former GE executive)

 Forecasts create the mirage that the future is knowable.

 - Peter Bernstein

 Forecasts usually tell us more of the forecaster than of the future.

 - Warren Buffett

 I never think of the future - it comes soon enough.

 - Albert Einstein


Memo: Lines in the Sand.

In my 2016 year-end review, which went only to clients, I included a discussion of the use of
subscription lines by closed-end funds in areas such as private equity, real estate, distressed debt and
private credit. It's my impression that their use has become fairly pervasive in recent years, and in
response to clients' requests and market trends, Oaktree has utilized subscription lines in some of its
newer funds.

That year-end note prompted some interesting and spirited discussion of lines and their merit and
effect. Thus I decided to write this memo on the topic for general circulation.

How Do Subscription Lines Work?

As I wrote in the year-end review, subscription lines are bank loans extended to funds that enable
them to use borrowed money, rather than LP capital, to make early investments or pay fees and
expenses. While there is no universal description, I believe it's safe to say in general that
subscription lines:

 are limited as a percentage of the LPs' capital commitments. (Commitments from the most
 creditworthy LPs earn a 90% advance rate, and commitments from lesser credits earn lower
 advance rates or, in some cases, zero),
 are secured by the LPs' capital commitments, and
 generally must be repaid in the early or middle part of the fund's life (unless extended),
 although terms are beginning to lengthen.

The key element is that a subscription line can substitute for LP capital, but it can't be used to allow
the fund to invest more than its committed capital. That is, a $100 million fund with a subscription
line might be able to buy $50 million of assets without calling LP capital, but it still can't invest more
than $100 million in total (other than by recycling proceeds from liquidated investments). The
bottom line is that essentially all subscription line financing does is defer the calling of LP
capital.

So the starting point for this discussion is the fact that these lines lever LP capital but do not
lever funds in the sense of allowing funds to invest more than their committed capital. Fund-
level debt that allows funds to invest more than their committed capital is different from subscription
lines and not my subject here.

What Are the Effects?

Since a subscription line doesn't lever a fund, its use doesn't increase the total dollar profits
that the fund will earn from investments over its lifetime (assuming the GP makes the same
investments that it would have made if the fund didn't have a line).

Also, the use of a subscription line - obviously - doesn't alter the fund's committed or invested
capital. Thus, assuming all LP capital eventually is drawn, the fund's ratio of distributions to
LP capital - either the multiple of committed capital (MOCC) or the multiple of invested
capital (MOC) - isn't improved by the use of a line.

So much for what isn't changed. The question, then, is "what is?" First the positives:

 The original purpose of subscription lines was (a) to enable GPs to make investments and pay
 fund fees and expenses without frequent capital calls and (b) to prevent opportunistic funds
 that don't sit on large amounts of cash from missing out on attractive investments requiring
 quick funding. More recently, however, their use has grown for the additional reasons
 discussed below.

 With calls for LP capital postponed, the reported Internal Rate of Return or IRR in the
 early years - the dollar-weighted return on LP capital - will increase substantially
 (assuming the early profits exceed the interest and expenses on the line).

 The use of borrowed money can reduce or even eliminate the deleterious impact on
 early returns of the so-called "J-curve." The J-curve results from (a) the fact that in a
 fund's early years, management fees are usually charged on total committed capital, while a
 relatively small percentage of the capital has been put to work, and (b) the tendency of
 private investments to take a while to show results.

 Over the course of a fund's life, LP capital will typically be called for investments or to repay
 the borrowings under the subscription line. This will cause the ratio of subscription line
 capital employed to LP capital to decline. As a result, the fund's IRR will retreat from its
 elevated early level and move down toward what it would have been if the fund hadn't
 employed a subscription line. However, all other things being equal, the fund's lifetime
 IRR will remain higher than it otherwise would have been, since the impact of using the
 line will taper off but not reverse.

 Finally, any committed capital that hasn't been called because of borrowing under the line
 will remain in the hands of the LPs. Thus any return the LPs earn on the uncalled capital
 in excess of their share of the fund's subscription line costs will be additive to their
 results.

What about the negatives?

 If a fund finances investments by borrowing under a subscription line, interest and
 expenses will be paid that wouldn't have been paid if LP capital had been called instead.
 The payment of these costs, even with interest rates below LIBOR+2%, is a permanent net
 negative for the fund: since the fund isn't becoming levered, it won't be offset by an increase

 in dollar profits (see above). Thus it eats into the fund's dollar lifetime gains as well as its
 multiple of capital.

 Some LPs may actually want to have their capital called and earn their preferred
 return. That will jibe with their expectations and preserve the historic hurdle for incentive
 fees. The preferred return that must be earned before the GP receives incentive fees is
 calculated based on how much LP capital has been called and for how long it has remained
 outstanding. Thus the use of a subscription line in lieu of LP capital shrinks the dollar
 preferred return hurdle. Lowering the hurdle can increase the GP's probability of
 collecting incentive fees and cause the payment of incentive fees to the GP to begin
 sooner, although it will have no effect on the amount of incentive fees ultimately paid by a
 fund that would easily have cleared the percentage hurdle rate if it hadn't used a line. (At the
 same time, however, the interest and expenses paid on the line will reduce the fund's lifetime
 net dollar gains, and thus the eventual amount of incentive fees received by the GP. The
 interaction of these effects can be complex.)

 Less disciplined or less diligent GPs may be induced to lower the standards to which
 they subject investments because (a) their effective cost of capital seems so low and/or (b)
 they perceive an increased likelihood that the reported IRR will exceed the preferred return
 hurdle and thus a greater potential to earn incentive fees.

 Some LPs seek to avoid so-called Unrelated Business Taxable Income ("UBTI"). Without
 getting into further details, suffice it to say the use of subscription lines increases the risk
 of UBTI to these LPs.

 Since each LP's commitment to the fund is an essential part of the bank's collateral, the
 existence of a line could conceivably complicate the process of selling an LP interest in a
 secondary transaction, in particular if the would-be buyer is less creditworthy.

 As the use of subscription lines increases, many banks are requiring greater and more
 intrusive information on the financial wherewithal of fund LPs to ensure the sufficiency of
 collateral. Some LPs are now starting to push back on providing this information, while
 others are expressly demanding to be excluded from borrowings, which can create an
 awkward dynamic among the LPs and between the LPs and GP.

Given the existence of so many pros and cons, what factors have caused the use of subscription lines
to become widespread? I believe they're these:

For LPs:

 the desire for high reported IRRs,
 better cash management, including fewer drawdowns, and
 the potential to use their capital more efficiently (i.e., to use undrawn capital to make
 investments that may add to overall profits)

For GPs:

 the expectation that higher IRRs will enhance their reputations and enable them to raise more
 money,
 the potential to lower the hurdle that must be cleared before incentive fees are received,
 the ability to enhance reported results in a low-return world or mask otherwise-low
 investment returns, and
 defensively, a way to be competitive with other GPs who raise IRRs through the use of lines

Impact on Fund Performance Metrics

The most important question in assessing fund performance is clear: Did the GP do a good job?
It's a simple question, but answering it is anything but. In particular, if a fund that used a
subscription line shows a high IRR, does that confirm that the GP did a good job?

Since a fund's total dollar profits and multiple of capital aren't improved by the use of a subscription
line, the increase in IRR, while pleasant, might be thought of as illusory. Remember, as I wrote in a
2006 memo with the same title, you can't eat IRR.

My basic point in that memo was that what really matters is how much money an LP makes as
a result of having committed to a fund. It's that simple.

But the deeper message was that, while valuable, neither IRR nor MOCC nor MOC - nor any
other single metric - is sufficient to tell us whether the GP did a good job. There are many
elements that must be taken into account, and if you hold all the others equal, one metric might be
sufficient to answer the question. But the others rarely are equal. For example:

 A high IRR certainly is desirable. But that's what a fund can show if the GP makes only
 one investment, with a small fraction of the fund's committed capital, and that investment
 produces a substantial profit. For example, if a $100 million fund invests $1 million in
 something and sells it a month later for $2 million, that doubling will annualize to an IRR of
 roughly 400,000%. And if that's the only investment the GP makes, that'll be the fund's
 IRR, too. But it certainly doesn't mean the GP did a good job - I doubt the LP who
 committed $10 million to the fund will be happy with $10.1 million back in the end.

 To understand what an IRR really says about fund performance, you have to know
 what percentage of the capital was called and how long the GP held onto it. In short,
 LPs want to see their committed capital become fully invested and remain invested at solid
 rates of return for a long time. That's the formula for a big gain. A high return earned on a
 small amount of capital for a brief period doesn't help in that regard. High annualized IRRs
 on investments of less than a year can be especially misleading.

 A big multiple of invested capital is good, too. But it also may be of limited significance.
 Let's say the GP of that $100 million fund invests $10 million, keeps it invested for the
 fund's entire ten-year life, and earns an annual return of 15% on that investment. That will
 result in proceeds of $40 million and thus an MOC of 4x. That's great for the LPs . . . as far
 as it goes. But if that's the only investment the GP makes, the LPs collectively will earn

 profits of only $30 million, certainly not what they had in mind when they committed $100
 million to the fund. So, again, to know if the GP did a good job, you have to know what
 percentage of the committed capital was invested and how long the investment was
 outstanding. You have to know what the GP did with the entire commitment, not just
 the part that was invested.

 Finally, a big multiple of committed capital sounds almost perfect. But it, too, isn't
 sufficient. Let's say all of the fund's $100 million of committed capital is invested, and $300
 million comes back to LPs, for an MOCC of 3x. That's good, isn't it? That depends on how
 long the GP kept that $100 million. If it took six years to turn $100 million into $300
 million, the IRR on the fund is 20%. But if it took ten years to generate the same proceeds
 and MOCC, the IRR is just 11.6%. So it's not enough to know how much capital was
 invested and how much was returned. We have to know how long the process took.

The answer is simple. In order to be able to assess fund performance, we have to know:

 how much capital was committed,
 how much capital was invested,
 how long it was kept invested, and
 how much was returned to LPs.

IRR, MOCC and MOC are all significant indicators, but none of them takes all four of those
parameters into consideration. Thus no single metric is sufficient to tell us how good a job a GP did.
We have to consider multiple metrics, and sometimes they will give conflicting answers. Fund A
may look better on one of them and Fund B on another. So this is really just one more way in which
investing isn't subject to easy answers. Performance assessment requires consulting a variety of
performance metrics; considering other factors as well, some of which are subjective (like how risky
the portfolio was); and making judgments regarding the results.

One fund with a higher IRR didn't necessarily outperform another. And, provocatively, a
fund that used a subscription line and came in with a high IRR may not have done as good a
job - or made its LPs as much money - as one that didn't use a line (or used a line less
extensively) and reported a lower IRR.

Let's take that to its logical extreme. What if the typical race to the bottom happens at the banks,
making financing available on ever-easier terms? What if we reach a point where GPs are able to
obtain lines equal in size to the vast majority of their LPs' commitments and keep the borrowings
outstanding for most of the funds' life? In that case, there will be little need for a GP to draw LP
capital, and even low returns on investments could give rise to ultra-high IRRs at the fund level. The
bottom line on all this is that the use of subscription lines sheds considerable doubt on the
significance of IRR. And when IRR becomes suspect, anyone wanting to evaluate fund results
has no choice but to put greater emphasis on the multiple of capital.

Bigger Questions

All the above discussion is essentially mechanical, regarding matters of arithmetic. But there are
other questions surrounding subscription lines that involve investment risk, and some that have
bigger consequences . . . even potentially systemic.

Investments are invariably viewed as safe when it is assumed that the things that should happen will
happen. But I always hasten to point out that "should" isn't the same as "will."

Let's consider the process that's supposed to apply with subscription line borrowings:

 The GP organizes a fund and arranges for a subscription line.
 LPs commit capital.
 The LPs put in an actual or virtual lock-box the funds they'll need when capital is called.
 The GP uses borrowings under the subscription line to pay for investments, in lieu of calling
 LP capital.
 When the subscription line reaches its end, LP capital is called and the line is repaid.

That's what's supposed to happen. But there are ways in which actual events can deviate from that
idealized progression. Most of these would be the result of negative developments in the financial
markets or the larger world.

 Since the use of subscription lines results in there being fewer but larger capital calls, the
 magnitude of potential defaults by LPs is increased, along with the potential consequences.

 Suppose the fund makes $5 million of investments against an LP's $10 million commitment
 - borrowing $5 million on the line - and there's a financial crisis (or the investments simply
 turn out to be big losers) and those investments decline in value to $2 million. And suppose
 the line comes due, the fund calls $5 million from the LP with which to repay it, and the
 LP - perhaps receiving simultaneous capital calls from a number of similarly affected
 managers - concludes it's in its best interest (or its fiduciary duty) to NOT put up $5
 million to secure investments now worth $2 million. Instead, it defaults on the capital
 call, depriving the fund of capital, potentially limiting the fund's ability to repay the
 line and/or make further investments, and thereby possibly harming the remaining
 LPs. (Please note, however, that strategic defaults are an extreme hypothetical, since they
 would expose LPs to penalties, lawsuits and the forfeiture of their assets in the fund, in
 addition to the obvious reputational consequences.)

 Some funds (although none of Oaktree's) rely on subscription lines that are due on demand,
 rather than at the end of a stated term. What would be the effect if a large number of those
 lines were pulled simultaneously during a financial crisis? Or what if regulators required
 banks to call in their lines, even those that aren't callable or whose terms haven't expired?

 There's no question that the increasing use of subscription lines is altering the pattern of
 drawdowns and distributions. Going years without seeing much capital called could
 convince an LP that calls have become less likely. Suppose that, in response, rather
 than set aside capital equal to its commitments, the LP puts it into other investments.
 Although subscription lines don't result in funds becoming levered, this kind of behavior can

 result in the LP becoming levered (i.e., having total investments plus commitments that
 exceed its available capital). Now suppose a financial crisis brings large losses to fund
 investments in general. If the LP has made excess commitments, it could (a) suffer
 levered losses and (b) be forced to liquidate marketable securities in a crisis to satisfy
 capital calls in connection with their commitments to closed-end funds. Taken to a
 hopefully unrealistic extreme, could this cause LPs to become insolvent and banks to
 experience a wave of defaults on these lines?

Market meltdowns and financial crises can increase the probability that banks will recall lines and
decrease the probability that all LPs will meet the calls. If an LP has taken advantage of subscription
line financing to become more than 100% committed, it might be more likely to default on the calls.

If a fund has diversified commitment sources and just a couple of LPs default, the fund will probably
manage just fine. But suppose many LPs default? In that circumstance it's easy to imagine a fund
being forced to sell assets during a market downturn to pay off its line and/or lacking the capital it
thought it would have with which to take advantage of market opportunities. Both outcomes could
be very negative for funds and LPs alike.

The obligations of the LPs in a fund with a subscription line are interrelated; for example, one LP's
default on its capital commitment requires the other LPs to contribute more (up to the amount of their
commitment) to repay the subscription line. Could this mean that failures by some LPs would
increase the likelihood of failures by others? In the extreme, if defaults on lines are widespread,
could lines become a source of significant risk to banks?

In order to figure out the full impact of the use of subscription lines, one would have to know
what LPs do with the uncalled capital during the period before it's drawn by the funds. It does
seem, however, that subscription lines may be adding to risk at a variety of levels.

These hypothetical examples imagine financial crises, asset meltdowns and - in some cases - less-
than-conservative behavior on the part of LPs. They're all unlikely. But are they impossible? It's
mostly during crises that weaknesses are exposed, things that are supposed to happen fail to do
so, and unanticipated consequences and linkages manifest themselves.

As I mentioned at the outset, some Oaktree funds have made use of subscription lines, in recognition
of the advantages described above and because many of our LPs - almost all of which are
sophisticated institutional investors capable of understanding how lines work and their pros and cons
- have indicated that they want us to do so. However, I can report that the concerns discussed above
have caused us to begin an internal process to develop guidelines intended to mitigate the risks of
subscription lines while preserving their benefits.

The key to financial security - individual or societal - doesn't lie in counting on things to work
in good times or on average. Rather, it consists of figuring out what can go wrong in bad times,
and of only doing things that will prove survivable even if they materialize. Has anyone thought
through all the implications of closed-end funds' increasing use of subscription lines? Are they all
tolerable, for the individual parties and for the financial system? I haven't read much on this subject,
but we should all be thinking about it. That's the reason I'm writing today.


Memo: There They Go Again . . . Again.

Some of the memos I'm happiest about having written came at times when bullish trends went
too far, risk aversion disappeared and bubbles inflated. The first and best example is probably
"bubble.com," which raised questions about Internet and e-commerce stocks on the first business day
of 2000. As I tell it, after ten years without a single response, that one made my memo writing an
overnight success.

Another was "The Race to the Bottom" (February 2007), which talked about the mindless
shouldering of risk that takes place when investors are eager to put money to work. Both of those
memos raised doubts about investment trends that soon turned out to have been big mistakes.

Those are only two of the many cautionary memos I've written over the years. In the last cycle, they
started coming two years before "The Race to the Bottom" and included "There They Go
Again" (the inspiration for this memo's title), "Hindsight First, Please," "Everyone Knows" and "It's
All Good." When I wrote them, they appeared to be wrong for a while. It took time before they
were shown to have been right, and just too early.

The memos that have raised yellow flags in the current up-cycle, starting with "How Quickly They
Forget" in 2011 and including "On Uncertain Ground," "Ditto," and "The Race Is On," also clearly
were early, but so far they're not right (and in fact, when you're early by six or more years, it's not
clear you can ever be described as having been right). Since I've written so many cautionary
memos, you might conclude that I'm just a born worrier who eventually is made to be right by
the operation of the cycle, as is inevitable given enough time. I absolutely cannot disprove that
interpretation. But my response would be that it's essential to take note when sentiment (and thus
market behavior) crosses into too-bullish territory, even though we know rising trends may well roll
on for some time, and thus that such warnings are often premature. I think it's better to turn
cautious too soon (and thus perhaps underperform for a while) rather than too late, after the
downslide has begun, making it hard to trim risk, achieve exits and cut losses.

Since I'm convinced "they" are at it again - engaging in willing risk-taking, funding risky deals and
creating risky market conditions - it's time for yet another cautionary memo. Too soon? I hope so;
we'd rather make money for our clients in the next year or two than see the kind of bust that gives
rise to bargains. (We all want there to be bargains, but no one's eager to endure the price declines
that create them.) Since we never know when risky behavior will bring on a market correction, I'm
going to issue a warning today rather than wait until one is upon us.

I'm in the process of writing another book, going into great depth regarding one of the most
important things discussed in my book The Most Important Thing: cycles, their causes, and what to
do about them. It will be out next year, but this memo will give you a preview regarding one of the
most important cyclical phenomena.

Before starting in, I want to apologize for the length of this memo, almost double the norm. First, the
topic is wide-ranging - so much so that when I sat down to write, I found the task daunting. Second,
my recent vacation gave me the luxury of time for writing. Believe it or not, I've cut what I could. I
think what remains is essential.

Today's Investment Environment

Because I don't intend this to be a "macro memo," incorporating a thorough review of the economic
and market environment, I'll merely reference what I think are the four most noteworthy components
of current conditions:

 The uncertainties are unusual in terms of number, scale and insolubility in areas
 including secular economic growth; the impact of central banks; interest rates and inflation;
 political dysfunction; geopolitical trouble spots; and the long-term impact of technology.

 In the vast majority of asset classes, prospective returns are just about the lowest they've
 ever been.

 Asset prices are high across the board. Almost nothing can be bought below its intrinsic
 value, and there are few bargains. In general the best we can do is look for things that are
 less over-priced than others.

 Pro-risk behavior is commonplace, as the majority of investors embrace increased risk as
 the route to the returns they want or need.

Ditto

In January 2013, I wrote a memo entitled "Ditto." Its thrust was that (a) history tends to repeat, (b)
thus my memos often return to the same topics and (c) if I've handled them well in the past, rather
than re-invent the wheel, I might as well borrow from what I've written before. Ergo, "ditto."

Few topics are more susceptible to this treatment than the process through which (a) investment
fundamentals fluctuate cyclically; (b) investors overreact to the fluctuations; (c) the level of risk
aversion incorporated in investor behavior fluctuates between excessive and inadequate; and thus (d)
market conditions swing from depressed to elevated and treacherous. Here's how I summed up on
this topic in "There They Go Again" (May 2005):

 Given today's paucity of prospective return at the low-risk end of the spectrum and
 the solutions being ballyhooed at the high-risk end, many investors are moving
 capital to riskier (or at least less traditional) investments. But (a) they're making
 those riskier investments just when the prospective returns on those investments are
 the lowest they've ever been; (b) they're accepting return increments for stepping up
 in risk that are as slim as they've ever been; and (c) they're signing up today for
 things they turned down (or did less of) in the past, when the prospective returns were
 much higher. This may be exactly the wrong time to add to risk in pursuit of more

 return. You want to take risk when others are fleeing from it, not when they're
 competing with you to do so.

Do you see any differences between then and now? Is there any need to redo this description? Not
for me; I think "ditto" will suffice. I'll simply go on to borrow the conclusion from "The Race to
the Bottom" (February 2007):

 Today's financial market conditions are easily summed up: There's a global
 glut of liquidity, minimal interest in traditional investments, little apparent
 concern about risk, and skimpy prospective returns everywhere. Thus, as the
 price for accessing returns that are potentially adequate (but lower than those
 promised in the past), investors are readily accepting significant risk in the form
 of heightened leverage, untested derivatives and weak deal structures. The
 current cycle isn't unusual in its form, only its extent. There's little mystery about
 the ultimate outcome, in my opinion, but at this point in the cycle it's the optimists
 who look best.

The Seeds for a Boom

My son Andrew worked extensively with me in preparing this memo. We particularly enjoyed
making a list of the elements that typically form the foundation for a bull market, boom or bubble.
We concluded that some or all of the following are necessary conditions. A few will give us a bull
market. All of them together will deliver a boom or bubble:

 A benign environment - good results lull investors into complacency, as they get used to
 having their positive expectations rewarded. Gains in the recent past encourage the heated
 pursuit of further gains in the future (rather than suggest that past gains might have borrowed
 from future gains).
 A grain of truth - the story supporting a boom isn't created out of whole cloth; it generally
 coalesces around something real. The seed usually isn't imaginary, just eventually
 overblown.
 Early success - the gains enjoyed by the "wise man in the beginning" - the first to seize
 upon the grain of truth - tends to attract "the fool in the end" who jumps in too late.
 More money than ideas - when capital is in oversupply, it is inevitable that risk aversion
 dries up, gullibility expands, and investment standards are relaxed.
 Willing suspension of disbelief - the quest for gain overcomes prudence and deference to
 history. Everyone concludes "this time it's different." No story is too good to be true.
 Rejection of valuation norms - all we hear is, "the asset is so great: there's no price too
 high." Buying into a fad regardless of price is the absolute hallmark of a bubble.
 The pursuit of the new - old timers fare worst in a boom, with the gains going
 disproportionately to those who are untrammeled by knowledge of the past and thus able to
 buy into an entirely new future.
 The virtuous circle - no one can see any end to the potential of the underlying truth or how
 high it can push the prices of related assets. It's broadly accepted that trees can grow to the
 sky: "It can only go up. Nothing can stop it." Certainly no one can picture things taking a
 turn for the worse.

 Fear of missing out - when all the above becomes widespread, optimism prevails and no
 one can imagine a glitch. That causes most people to conclude that the greatest potential
 error lies in failing to participate in the current market darling.

Certainly many of the things listed above are in play today. Performance has been good - with
minor exceptions, quickly rectified - since the beginning of 2009 (that's more than eight years).
There's certainly more money around these days than high-return possibilities. "New ideas" are
readily accepted, and some things are viewed as representing virtuous circles.

On the other hand, some of the usual ingredients are missing. Most people (a) are conscious of the
uncertainties listed above, (b) recognize that prospective returns are quite skimpy, and (c)
accept that things are unlikely to go well forever. That's all healthy.

But on the third hand, most people can't think of what might cause trouble anytime soon. But
it's precisely when people can't see what it is that could make things turn down that risk is highest,
since they tend not to price in risks they can't see. With the negative catalyst so elusive and the
return on cash at punitive levels, people worry more about being underinvested or bearing too
little risk (and thus earning too low a return in good markets) than they do about losing money.

This combination of elements presents today's investors with a highly challenging environment.
The result is a world in which assets have appreciated significantly, risk aversion is low, and
propositions are accepted that would be questioned if investors were more wary.

Most of what remains for the meat of this memo will consist of descriptions of things afoot in the
markets today. They are intended - as usual with my memos - to be anecdotal and thought-
provoking, not complete and scientific. Think about how many of the things listed above you see in
the examples that follow.

U.S. Equities

The good news is that the U.S. economy is the envy of the world, with the highest growth rate among
developed nations and a slowdown unlikely in the near term. The bad news is that this status
generates demand for U.S. equities that has raised their prices to lofty levels.

 The S&P 500 is selling at 25 times trailing-twelve-month earnings, compared to a long-term
 median of 15.
 The Shiller Cyclically Adjusted PE Ratio stands at almost 30 versus a historic median of 16.
 This multiple was exceeded only in 1929 and 2000 - both clearly bubbles.
 While the "p" in p/e ratios is high today, the "e" has probably been inflated by cost cutting,
 stock buybacks, and merger and acquisition activity. Thus today's reported valuations, while
 high, may actually be understated relative to underlying profits.
 The "Buffett Yardstick" - total U.S. stock market capitalization as a percentage of GDP - is
 immune to company-level accounting issues (although it isn't perfect either). It hit a new all-
 time high last month of around 145, as opposed to a 1970-95 norm of about 60 and a 1995-

 Finally, it can be argued that even the normal historic valuations aren't merited, since
 economic growth may be slower in the coming years than it was in the post-World War II
 period when those norms were established.

The thing that is clearest is that the low Fed-mandated short-term interest rates make high
valuations seem reasonable. When yields are low on fixed income instruments, low earnings yields
on equities (that is, low e/p ratios, which equate to high p/e ratios) seem justified. As Buffett said in
February, "Measured against interest rates, stocks actually are on the cheap side compared to historic
valuations."

But he went on to say, ". . . the risk always is that interest rates go up a lot, and that brings stocks
down." Are you happy counting on continued low interest rates for your investment security,
especially at a time when the Fed has embarked upon a series of rate increases? And if interest
rates do remain low for several more years, isn't it likely to be as a result of a lack of vigor in the
economy, which would likely cause earnings growth to be sluggish?

VIX

The value of an option contract is largely a function of the volatility of the asset under option. For
example, the owner of a "call" has the right - but not the obligation - to buy something at a fixed
"strike price." Thus he should hope the asset will be volatile: if its price rises a lot, he can buy at the
strike price and sell at the new, higher price, locking in a profit. And what if it goes down a lot? No
matter; he isn't obligated to buy.

Thus the expected volatility of the underlying asset is a key ingredient in determining the proper
price for an option. For example, everything else being equal, the more volatile an asset is expected
to be, the more the buyer of a call should be willing to pay for it (since he participates in the gains but
not the losses) and the more the seller of a call should charge for it (since he is forgoing upside
potential but retaining downside risk). This is reflected through option-pricing formulas such as the
Black-Scholes Model.

The formulas can also be used backwards. Starting with the option price, you can figure out what
level of volatility the buyers and sellers are anticipating. Thus, ever since 1990, the Chicago Board
Options Exchange has published the CBOE Volatility Index, or "VIX," showing how volatile
investors in options on the S&P 500 expect it to be over the next 30 days. The attention paid to the
VIX has increased in recent years, and it has come to be called the "complacency index" or the
"investor fear gauge." When the VIX is low, investors are pricing in stable, tranquil markets, and
when it's high they're anticipating major ups and downs.

The bottom line is that last week's VIX was the lowest in its 27-year history - matching a level seen
only once before. The index was last this low when Bill Clinton took office in 1993, at a time when
there was peace in the world, faster economic growth and a much smaller deficit. Should people
really be as complacent now as they were then?

What's the significance of the VIX, anyway? Most importantly, it doesn't say what volatility will
be, only what investors think volatility will be. Thus it's primarily an indicator of investor
sentiment. In "Expert Opinion" I quoted Warren Buffett as having said, "Forecasts usually tell us

more of the forecaster than of the future." In a similar way, the VIX tells us more about people's
mood today than it does about volatility tomorrow.

All we really know is that implied volatility expectations are low today. As with most things in
investing, the VIX can be subject to multiple interpretations. As Business Insider wrote on July 18:

 While alarmists may view this [low level of VIX] as a negative - a signal that
 complacency has made traders vulnerable to an unforeseen shock - many investors
 simply see it as a byproduct of conditions ideal for stocks to continue edging higher.

I would add one last thing: people extrapolate. So when volatility has been low, they tend to assume
it will be low and build that assumption into the prices for options and assets. The two are not the
same.

Super-Stocks

Bull markets are often marked by the anointment of a single group of stocks as "the greatest,"
and the attractive legend surrounding this group is among the factors that support the bull
move. When taken to the extreme - as it invariably is - this phenomenon satisfies some of the
elements in a boom listed on page four, including:

 trust in a virtuous circle incapable of being interrupted;
 conviction that, given the companies' fundamental merit, there's no price too high for their
 stocks; and
 the willing suspension of disbelief that allows investors to extrapolate these positive views to
 infinity.

In the current iteration, these attributes are being applied to a small group of tech-based companies,
which are typified by "the FAANGs": Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google (now renamed
Alphabet). They all sport great business models and unchallenged leadership in their markets. Most
importantly, they're viewed as having captured the future and thus as sure to be winners in the years
to come.

True as far as it goes . . . just as it appeared to be true of the Nifty-Fifty in the 1960s, oil stocks in the
'70s, disk drive companies in the '80s, and tech/media/telecom in the late '90s. But in each of those
cases:

 the environment changed in unforeseen ways,
 it turned out that the newness of the business model had hidden its flaws,
 competition arose,
 excellence in the concept gave rise to weaknesses in execution, and/or
 it was shown that even great fundamentals can become overpriced and thus give way to
 massive losses.

The FAANGs are truly great companies, growing rapidly and trouncing the competition (where it
exists). But some are doing so without much profitability, and for others profits are growing slower

than revenues. Some of them doubtless will be the great companies of tomorrow. But will they all?
Are they invincible, and is their success truly inevitable?

The prices investors are paying for these stocks generally represent 30 or more years of the
companies' current earnings. There are clear reasons to be excited about their growth in the near
term, but what about the durability of earnings over the long term, where much of the value in a high-
multiple stock necessarily lies? Andrew points out that the iPhone is just ten years old, and twenty
years ago the Internet wasn't in widespread use. That raises the question of whether investors in
technology can really see the future, and thus how happy they should be paying prices that
incorporate optimistic assumptions regarding long-term earnings power. Of course, this may just
mean the best is yet to come for these fairly young companies.

Here's a passage from one company's 1997 letter to shareholders:

 We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
 including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista, @Home,
 and Prodigy.

How many of these "important strategic partners" still exist in a meaningful way today (leaving aside
the question of whether they're important or strategic)? The answer is zero (unless you believe
Yahoo! satisfies the criteria, in which case the answer is one). The source of the citation is
Amazon's 1997 annual report, and the bottom line is that the future is unpredictable, and nothing and
no company is immune to glitches.

The super-stocks that lead a bull market inevitably become priced for perfection. And in many
cases the companies' perfection turns out eventually to be either illusory or ephemeral. Some
of the "can't lose" companies of the Nifty-Fifty were ultimately crippled by massive changes in their
markets, including Kodak, Polaroid, Xerox, Sears and Simplicity Pattern (do you see many people
sewing their own clothes these days?). Not only did the perfection that investors had paid for
evaporate, but even the successful companies' stock prices reverted to more-normal valuation
multiples, resulting in sub-par equity returns.

The powerful multiple expansion that makes a small number of stocks the leaders in a bull
market is often reversed in the correction that follows, saddling them with the biggest losses.
But when the mood is positive and things are going well, the likelihood of such a development is
easily overlooked.

Finally, a rationale often arises to the effect that, thanks to market technicals, investors' powerful
buying of the leading stocks is sure to continue non-stop, meaning they can't help but remain the best
performers. In the tech bubble of the late 1990's, for example, investors concluded that:

 stocks were doing so well that they would continue to attract capital,
 since tech companies and tech stocks were the best performers, they were sure to continue
 attracting a disproportionate share of the new buying,
 the superior performance of the tech stocks would cause more of them to be added to the
 stock indices,
 this would require index funds and closet indexers to direct a rising share of their buying to
 tech stocks,

 in order to keep up with the returns on the indices, benchmark-conscious active managers
 would have to respond by increasing their tech stock holdings, and,
 thus tech stocks couldn't fail to attract an ever-rising share of buying, and were sure to keep
 outperforming.

You can call this a virtuous circle or a perpetual motion machine. It's the kind of thing that
fires investors' imaginations in a bull market. But the logic that says it will work forever always
collapses, sometimes just under its own weight, as was the case in 2000.

Many of the most important considerations in investing are counterintuitive. One of those is
the ability to understand that no market, niche or group is likely to outperform the others
forever. Given human nature, "the best" will always come eventually to be overpriced, even for
their stellar fundamentals. Thus even if the fundamentals hold up, the stocks' performance from
those too-high prices will become ordinary. And if they turn out not really to have been the best - or
if their business falters - the combination of fundamental decline and multiple contraction can be
really painful.

I'm not saying the FAANGs aren't great, or that they'll suffer such a fate. Just that their
elevated status today is a sign of the kind of investor optimism for which we must be on the
lookout.

Passive Investing/ETFs

Fifty years ago, shortly after arriving at the University of Chicago for graduate school, I was taught
that thanks to market efficiency, (a) assets are priced to provide fair risk-adjusted returns and (b) no
one can consistently find the exceptions. In other words, "you can't beat the market." Our
professors even advanced the idea of buying a little bit of each stock as a can't-fail, low-cost way to
outperform the stock-pickers.

John Bogle put that suggestion into practice. Having founded Vanguard a year earlier, he launched
the First Index Investment Trust in 1975, the first index fund to reach commercial scale. As a vehicle
designed to emulate the S&P 500, it was later renamed the Vanguard 500 Index Fund.

The concept of indexation, or passive investing, grew gradually over the next four decades, until it
accounted for 20% of equity mutual fund assets in 2014. Given the generally lagging performance of
active managers over the last dozen or so years, as well as the creation of ETFs, or exchange-traded
funds, which make transacting simpler, the shift from active to passive investing has accelerated.
Today it's a powerful movement that has expanded to cover 37% of equity fund assets. In the last
ten years, $1.4 trillion has flowed into index mutual funds and ETFs (and $1.2 trillion out of actively
managed mutual funds).

Like all investment fashions, passive investing is being warmly embraced for its positives:

 Passive portfolios have outperformed active investing over the last decade or so.
 With passive investing you're guaranteed not to underperform the index.
 Finally, the much lower fees and expenses on passive vehicles are certain to constitute a
 permanent advantage relative to active management.

Does that mean passive investing, index funds and ETFs are a no-lose proposition? Certainly not:

 While passive investors protect against the risk of underperforming, they also surrender the
 possibility of outperforming.
 The recent underperformance on the part of active investors may well prove to be cyclical
 rather than permanent.
 As a product of the last several years, ETFs' promise of liquidity has yet to be tested in a
 major bear market, particularly in less-liquid fields like high yield bonds.

Here are a few more things worth thinking about:

Remember, the wisdom of passive investing stems from the belief that the efforts of active
investors cause assets to be fairly priced - that's why there are no bargains to find. But what
happens when the majority of equity investment comes to be managed passively? Then prices
will be freer to diverge from "fair," and bargains (and over-pricings) should become more
commonplace. This won't assure success for active managers, but certainly it will satisfy a necessary
condition for their efforts to be effective.

One of my clients, the chief investment officer of a pension fund, told me the treasurer had proposed
dumping all active managers and putting the whole fund into index funds and ETFs. My response
was simple: ask him how much of the fund he's comfortable having in assets no one is analyzing.

As Steven Bregman of Horizon Kinetics puts it, "basket-based mechanistic investing" is blindly
moving trillions of dollars. ETFs don't have fundamental analysts, and because they don't question
valuations, they don't contribute to price discovery. Not only is the number of active managers'
analysts likely to decline if more money is shifted to passive investing, but people should also
wonder about who's setting the rules that govern passive funds' portfolio construction.

The low fees and expenses that make passive investments attractive mean their organizers have to
emphasize scale. To earn higher fees than index funds and achieve profitable scale, ETF sponsors
have been turning to "smarter," not-exactly-passive vehicles. Thus ETFs have been organized to
meet (or create) demand for funds in specialized areas such as various stock categories (value or
growth), stock characteristics (low volatility or high quality), types of companies, or geographies.
There are passive ETFs for people who want growth, value, high quality, low volatility and
momentum. Going to the extreme, investors now can choose from funds that invest passively in
companies that have gender-diverse senior management, practice "biblically responsible investing,"
or focus on medical marijuana, solutions to obesity, serving millennials, and whiskey and spirits.

But what does "passive" mean when a vehicle's focus is so narrowly defined? Each deviation from
the broad indices introduces definitional issues and non-passive, discretionary decisions.
Passive funds that emphasize stocks reflecting specific factors are called "smart-beta funds," but who
can say the people setting their selection rules are any smarter than the active managers who are so
disrespected these days? Bregman calls this "semantic investing," meaning stocks are chosen on the
basis of labels, not quantitative analysis. There are no absolute standards for which stocks represent
many of the characteristics listed above.

Importantly, organizers wanting their "smart" products to reach commercial scale are likely to rely
heavily on the largest-capitalization, most-liquid stocks. For example, having Apple in your ETF
allows it to get really big. Thus Apple is included today in ETFs emphasizing tech, growth, value,
momentum, large-caps, high quality, low volatility, dividends, and leverage.

Here's what Barron's had to say earlier this month:

 With cap-weighted indexes, index buyers have no discretion but to load up on stocks
 that are already overweight (and often pricey) and neglect those already underweight.
 That's the opposite of buy low, sell high.

The large positions occupied by the top recent performers - with their swollen market caps - mean
that as ETFs attract capital, they have to buy large amounts of these stocks, further fueling their rise.
Thus, in the current up-cycle, over-weighted, liquid, large-cap stocks have benefitted from
forced buying on the part of passive vehicles, which don't have the option to refrain from
buying a stock just because its overpriced.

Like the tech stocks in 2000, this seeming perpetual motion machine is unlikely to work
forever. If funds ever flow out of equities and thus ETFs, what has been disproportionately bought
will have to be disproportionately sold. It's not clear where index funds and ETFs will find
buyers for their over-weighted, highly appreciated holdings if they have to sell in a crunch. In
this way, appreciation that was driven by passive buying is likely to eventually turn out to be
rotational, not perpetual.

Finally, the systemic risks to the stock market have to be considered. Bregman calls "the index
universe a big, crowded momentum trade." A handful of stocks - the FAANGs and a few more - are
responsible for a rising percentage of the S&P's gains, meaning the stock market's health may be
overstated.

All the above factors raise questions about the likely effectiveness of passive vehicles - and
especially smart-beta ETFs.

 Is Apple a safe stock or a stock that has performed well of late? Is anyone thinking about the
 difference?
 Are investors who invest in a number of passive vehicles described in different ways likely to
 achieve the diversification, liquidity and safety they expect?
 And what should we think about the willingness of investors to turn over their capital to
 a process in which neither individual holdings nor portfolio construction is the subject
 of thoughtful analysis and decision-making, and in which buying takes place regardless
 of price?

Credit

Corporate debt instruments are good candidates for spotting bull-market behavior given that (unlike
equities, for example), we can readily determine their prospective returns. We know that, as
described in "The Race to the Bottom," in overpopulated markets providers of credit compete to
make loans and investments that embody low returns, weak structures and slender margins of safety.

Whatever the level of fundamental risk, sometimes the reward for bearing it is demonstrably
inadequate, and sometimes it is highly excessive. It's an over-simplification, but sometimes I
think we could base our strategic decisions almost exclusively on the relationship between risk
in the market and investors' willingness to bear it.

It's very helpful to know - and a lot of my new book will be about - where we stand in that swing.
In that regard, I'll remind you that "The Race to the Bottom" was prompted by a Financial Times
article about U.K. banks' willingness to compete for mortgage business by increasing the multiple of
annual income they would lend. Earlier this month, ironically, I read the following in another
London newspaper, the Daily Mail:

 In a chilling echo of the sub-prime mortgage crisis of 2007, car finance firms
 packaged and sold £5.5 billion of risky loan debt to investors last year - twice as
 much as the year before.

Such eagerness to finance low-quality loans will always be a sign of elevated, over-financed,
risk-oblivious credit markets. At the late-2008 trough of the financial crisis, high yield bonds and
leveraged loans yielded almost 2,000 basis points more than comparable Treasurys, meaning anyone
who bought and held couldn't really lose. Then, as investors recovered their equilibrium and bought,
prices rose and the yield spread contracted. Now the spread is merely average relative to history - a
few hundred basis points. The net yields on these securities are still highly likely to be well in excess
of those on Treasurys, but any capital appreciation would have to come from further spread
contraction, and that certainly can't be counted upon.

The credit investors of today clearly aren't gun-shy, leaving investment opportunities to languish at
excessive yields and yield spreads. At best these investments are fairly priced today in relative terms
and fully priced - offering low returns like everything else - in absolute terms.

I'll use an example to illustrate the acceptance being accorded low-grade credit instruments. In early
May, Netflix issued €1.3 billion of Eurobonds, the lowest-cost debt it ever issued. The interest rate
was 3.625%, the covenants were few, and the rating was single-B. Netflix's GAAP earnings run
about $200 million per quarter, but according to Grant's Interest Rate Observer, in the year that
ended March 31, Netflix burned through $1.8 billion of free cash flow. It's an exciting company, but
as Grant's reminded its readers, bondholders can't participate in gains, just losses. Given this
asymmetrical proposition, any bond issue should be characterized by solidity and a meaningful
promised return, not the sex appeal of its issuer.

Is it prudent to lend money to a company that goes through it at such a prodigious rate? Will
Amazon or Google be able to loosen Netflix's hold on its customers? Is it wise to buy bonds based
on a technology position that could be overtaken? Positive investor sentiment has taken the
company's equity value to $70 billion; what would happen to the bond price if worries about rising
competition took a bite out of that one day? Should you take these risks to make less than 4% per
year? In Oaktree's view, this isn't a solid debt investment; it's an equity-linked digital content
investment totally lacking in upside potential, and it's not for us. The fact that deals like this
can get done easily should tell you something about today's market climate.

Finally, let's consider whether risk tolerance and carefree behavior are isolated or widespread in
today's credit market. Here are some quotes from a July 14 article by Lisa Abramowicz of
Bloomberg Gadfly (emphasis added):

 Over the last eight years, junk-rated corporate debt has been transformed from a
 fringe asset to a staple for many fixed-income investors. As they've become more
 popular, these risky bonds and loans have increasingly lost a feature that made them
 so attractive (and lucrative) - the investor protections known as covenants written
 into the documents that govern the debt. These are aimed at ensuring investors can
 recover their money if the company fails.

 Last month, the $26.9 billion of junk bonds sold had the highest proportion of deals
 on record with weak investor protections, Moody's Investor Service reported this
 week. About 60 percent of the risky U.S. corporate bonds sold had few protections
 written into their deal documents, Moody's said. In the leveraged-loan market,
 nearly three quarters of the debt is "covenant lite" after three years of record issuance

 Investors have grown so confident about the seemingly interminable corporate-
 debt rally that many are dismissing the likelihood of large swaths of risky
 companies going bankrupt. After all, these covenants usually don't matter until
 there's a problem.

It's a standard cycle: cautious investing produces good performance in a salutary environment
. . . which leads to a reduction of caution . . . which leads to bad performance when the
environment turns less favorable. This is part of the race to the bottom I wrote about in 2008.

Emerging Market Debt

The emerging markets are another place where investor opinion fluctuates wildly and visibly.
"Everyone knows" the emerging markets have more growth potential than the developed world, but
attitudes regarding the realizability of that potential - and thus the price one should pay for it - gyrate
wildly over time.

I described the phenomenon in "The Role of Confidence" (August 2013). When confidence is
running high, the emerging markets are viewed as being just like developed markets, only faster-
growing, meaning it's reasonable for their securities to sell at yields and p/e ratios like those in the
developed world. But when confidence declines, it becomes clear that there are risks that don't exist
in the developed world - like coups, institutionalized corruption, maxi-devaluation and debt
repudiation - and thus significant valuation discounts are in order. Again, as with corporate credit,
which is this? Are investors appropriately sensitive to the risks and imposing reasonable
discounts, or are they ignoring the risks and happily paying up? That's a lot of what you have to
know.

To answer the question, I'll make reference to $2.75 billion of bonds that were issued by Argentina
in mid-June. The maturity was 100 years - "century bonds" - and the interest rate was 8%.

 You might have thought this would be a hard thing to sell. After all, Argentina had
 defaulted on its debts eight times in its 200-year history, with no fewer than five
 defaults in the past century alone, most recently in 2014 amid a legal dispute with the
 Elliott hedge fund. . . .

 But investors do not seem to care: there were $9.75bn of bids. And Argentina is not
 the only peculiar event in bond markets this month. Take a look, for example, at
 Ivory Coast. In recent weeks, this West African nation underwent yet another
 military uprising. But this month it sold 16-year bonds with a 6.25 per cent yield -
 and these were also heavily oversubscribed. Places such as Senegal and Egypt have
 also seen hot demand for their debt. (Financial Times, June 27)

To conclude on this subject, I can't resist citing (but am too polite to name) the head of research and
strategy for a likewise-unnamed broker/investment bank:

 "It's just shocking that they exit default and their bond issue is a century bond," said
 [Ms. X]. . . Nevertheless, she is advising her clients to buy the bonds as at least a
 short term trade.

Let me get this straight: it's incredible that Argentina is able to issue this thing, but it's a good buy
for a moment. It's a sign of the times: "something may go wrong, but probably not soon." I
much prefer Warren Buffett's view: "If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even
think about owning it for ten minutes."

For only the third time in history, emerging market debt is selling at yields below those on U.S. high
yield bonds. Is Argentina, a country that defaulted five times in the last hundred years (and once in
the last five), likely to get through the next hundred without a rerun?

The essential bottom line in all investing is simple: is the risk premium at least adequate? Can
we answer in the affirmative with regard to emerging market debt today?

Private Equity

In today's low-return world, it's clear that institutional investors needing 7-8% a year aren't likely to
get it from Treasurys yielding 1-2%, high grades at 3-4%, or mainstream stocks that most people
expect to return 5-6%. Heck, you can't even get it from Ivory Coast bonds! Where is one to turn?

The good news for firms like Oaktree is that the answer is felt to most likely lie in what have come to
be called "alternative investments" (there was no collective term for them when my partners and I
started off 30 years ago). Since essentially no public "beta" markets offer the returns institutions
need, many have turned instead to so-called "alpha strategies," where skillful, active management
has the potential to augment market returns, producing what's needed.

But one of the biggest alternatives categories - hedge funds - has been largely discredited as a result
of the meager average return over the last dozen years. And some of the others, like venture capital,
are hard to access and too small to absorb much capital. That brings investors mainly to real estate,
distressed debt and, especially, private equity.

Private equity firms market double-digit return track records, and even their top-of-the-cycle 2005-07
funds now sport respectable gains. As a result, they're attracting capital at all-time-high rates:

 Private equity is experiencing the best fundraising climate in years - perhaps ever. In
 the first half of the year, 224 North America-focused funds closed, raising $133
 billion, while globally there have been 412 private equity funds closed, which raised
 a combined $221.4 billion, surpassing slightly the record $220.8 billion raised in
 2008, according to Preqin. (Mergers & Acquisitions newsletter)

Private equity funds have been raising total capital in the hundreds of billions for the last few
years, and even before the latest spate of mega-funds, they already had several hundred
billion of "dry powder." Importantly, since private equity managers mostly engage in
leveraged buyouts, these amounts have to be viewed in terms of the levered-up total capital
they'll produce. Thus the PE firms will probably add more than a trillion dollars to their
buying power this year. Where will it be invested at a time when few assets can be bought at
bargain prices? Sellers of private companies, too, tend to set asking prices for their firms
based on what cash flows are worth in this low-return world.

I'm not saying private equity isn't a solution, or even that it's not the best solution. It's just
that its record fund-raising is yet one more sign of the willingness of investors to trust in
the future.

SoftBank Vision Fund

Perhaps the ultimate demonstration of faith in fund managers is SoftBank's recent raising of $93
billion for its Vision Fund for technology investments - presumably on the way to $100 billion.
SoftBank is a Japanese telecom company showing an 18-year annual return of 44% on investments
that have included chipmakers, ride-hailing and telecom. But I see issues with the fund:

First, SoftBank's record of investment success has relied heavily on one phenomenal investment.
The $20 million Softbank invested in Alibaba in 2000 has grown in value to more than $50 billion.
Skill or luck? And extrapolatable?

Second, size matters. In 1999/2000, the venture capital industry got into trouble because it followed
massively successful mid-1990s funds of hundreds of millions, with funds of $1-2 billion. The
Vision Fund isn't for startups, but still, can you wisely invest $100 billion in technology?

Third, here's an organization that has never managed money for third parties, starting the biggest
fund in history to do just that. Is their experience transferrable? In all these regards I think the
fund indicates a high level of enthusiasm and a low level of skepticism.

Fourth, and perhaps more importantly for my purposes here, I want to spend some time on the fund's
structure. For each 38 cents they put into the fund's equity, outside investors are required to put 62
cents into preferred units of the fund. On the other hand, SoftBank itself invested $28 billion in
equity but nothing in preferred.

 That means when the fund reaches $100 billion, SoftBank will have put up only 28% of the
 capital but will own 50% of the equity. Adding in management fees and carried interest, its
 28% of the capital may give it 60-70% of the gains.
 Even the private equity industry - with its willingness to take risk - has traditionally shied
 away from piling debt on technology companies (although less so lately). SoftBank doesn't
 hesitate to lever its tech investments.
 The preferred units will pay a 7% annual coupon. Lending money to a tech fund at that
 modest rate apparently is part of the price demanded of the LPs for an opportunity to invest
 in the fund's equity. I can imagine the sales pitch about how lucky the LPs are to get a
 chance to provide leverage for their own investment, but I doubt I'd be convinced.
 Finally, as the Financial Times wrote on June 11:

 While the preferred unit holders will eventually receive their principal back [plus
 7% per year], they will only receive [an equity] return for the equity portion of their
 investment in the fund.

 All outside backers of the fund are receiving 62 per cent in preferred units and the
 rest in equity, allowing them to reduce their downside risk, while still generating a
 good return.

 Sounds good on the surface. But how much does this diversion of the investors' capital into
 preferred units really reduce their downside risk? The FT says investors in the preferred
 units "will eventually receive their principal back." Should that really be "will," or
 perhaps "may" or "hopefully will"? Does a $100 million investment in the fund put only
 the $38 million of equity at risk, or is there risk associated with the preferred, too? I guess I
 don't consider the preferred units as rock-solid as the FT suggests. Aren't they more like the
 Netflix bonds: tech-linked downside with no upside? Would an arm's-length lender give an
 LP money at 7% to lever his equity in this fund 1.6 times?

The willingness of investors to invest in a shockingly large fund for levered tech investing with
a questionable structure is a further indication of an exuberant, unquestioning market.

Digital Currencies

The discussion of innovative investments brings me to Bitcoin, Ether and other digital currencies.
I'd guess these things have arisen from the intersection of (a) doubts about financial security -
including the value of national currencies - that grew out of the financial crisis and (b) the comfort
felt by millennials regarding all things virtual. But they're not real.

Some businesses accept Bitcoin as payment. Some buyers want to own Ether because it can be used
to pay for computing power on the Ethereum network. Some people are eager to speculate on digital
currency for profit. Others want to put a little money into these to-date-profitable phenomena rather
than run the risk of missing out. But they're not real!

People tell me these currencies are solid, because (a) they're secure against hacking and
counterfeiting and (b) the software used to generate them strictly limits the amount that can be

created. But they're not real!!!!! Nobody has been able to make sense to me of these currencies.
Here are a few paragraphs on Ether from The New York Times of June 19:

 The sudden rise of Ethereum highlights how volatile the bewildering world of virtual
 currency remains, where lines of code can be spun into billions of dollars in a matter
 of months. . . .

 Ethereum was launched in the middle of 2015 by a 21-year-old college dropout,
 Vitalik Buterin . . . Mr. Buterin was inspired by Bitcoin, and the software he built
 shares some of the same basic qualities. Both are hosted and maintained by the
 computers of volunteers around the world, who are rewarded for their participation
 with new digital tokens that are released into the network every day.

 Because the virtual currencies are tracked and maintained by a network of computers,
 no government or company is in charge. The prices of both Bitcoin and Ether are
 established on private exchanges, where people can sell the tokens they own at the
 going market price. . . .

 Many [new currency] applications being built on Ethereum are also raising money
 using the Ether currency, in what are known as initial coin offerings, a play on initial
 public offerings.

 Start-ups that have followed this path have generally collected Ether from investors
 and exchanged them for units of their own specialized virtual currency, leaving the
 entrepreneurs with the Ether to convert into dollars and spend on operational
 expenses.

 These coin offerings, which have proliferated in recent months, have created a surge
 of demand for the Ether currency. Just last week, investors sent $150 million worth
 of Ether to a start-up, Bancor, that wants to make it easier to launch virtual
 currencies.

Bottom line: you can use the imaginary currency Ether to buy other new imaginary currencies, or to
invest in new companies that will create other new currencies. In "bubble.com," I highlighted
some illogical aspects of e-commerce by including some of my father's old jokes regarding how to
make money. Here's another that seems 100% appropriate for the digital currency movement:

 Two guys meet in the street. Joe tells Bob about the hamster he has for sale:
 pedigreed and highly intelligent. Bob says he'd like to buy a hamster for his kid:
 "How much is it?" Joe answers, "half a million," and Bob tells him he's crazy.

 They meet again the next day. "How'd you do with that hamster?" Bob asks. "Sold
 it," says Joe. "Did you get $500,000?" Bob asks. "Sure," says Joe. "Cash?" "No,"
 Joe answers, "I took two $250,000 canaries."

One of my very favorite quotes concerning the market's foibles, from John Kenneth Galbraith, says
that in euphoric times, "past experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed
as the primitive refuge of those who do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible
wonders of the present."

Maybe I'm just a dinosaur, too technologically backward to appreciate the greatness of digital
currency. But it is my firm view that the ability of these things to gain acceptance is just one
more proof of the prevalence today of financial naiveté, willing risk-taking and wishful
thinking.

In my view, digital currencies are nothing but an unfounded fad (or perhaps even a pyramid
scheme), based on a willingness to ascribe value to something that has little or none beyond
what people will pay for it. But this isn't the first time. The same description can be applied to the
Tulip mania that peaked in 1637, the South Sea Bubble (1720) and the Internet Bubble (1999-2000).

Serious investing consists of buying things because the price is attractive relative to intrinsic
value. Speculation, on the other hand, occurs when people buy something without any
consideration of its underlying value or the appropriateness of its price, solely because they
think others will pay more for it in the future.

It isn't unreasonable for someone to use Bitcoin to pay for something - or for a seller to accept
Bitcoin in payment - based on an agreement between the parties: barter takes place all the time. But
does that make it "currency"?

The price of Bitcoin has more than doubled since the start of the year. Can something that
does that seriously be considered a "medium of exchange" or "store of value," rather than the
subject of a speculative mania? Maybe not, but Bitcoin looks staid in comparison to Ether, which
has appreciated 4,500% so far this year. The outstanding Ether is now worth 82% as much as all the
Bitcoin in the world, up from 5% at the beginning of the year.

The New York Times notes that together, the outstanding Bitcoin and Ether are worth more than
Paypal and almost as much as Goldman Sachs. Would you rather own all of the two digital
currencies or one of those companies? In other words, are these currencies' values real? They're
likely to keep working as long as optimism is present, but their performance in bad times is far from
dependable. What will happen to Bitcoin's price and liquidity in a crisis if people decide they'd
rather hold dollars (or gold)?

We Agree, But . . .

Andrew told me about a conversation he had recently with some fund managers, in which he went
over a lot of what I'm discussing here. Given today's conditions, their response started predictably:
"We agree, but . . ."

We hear a lot of that these days:

 We agree, but the things we're doing offer higher returns than the rest.
 We agree, but cash isn't an option when it returns nearly nothing.
 We agree, but we can't take the risk of being out of the market.
 We agree, but there's no alternative.

Investors should choose their risk posture based on an assessment of what's being offered in
terms of absolute return, absolute risk, and thus absolute risk-adjusted return. But today - on
that famous other hand - investors generally don't have the luxury of holding out for absolute
returns and safety like they enjoyed in the past.

Many of the things I've highlighted above offer good returns and risk premiums relative to the
returns on Treasurys and high grade debt. But (a) low rates may be - generally are expected to be - a
temporary condition and (b) it might be wiser to gauge reward in absolute terms. The bottom line is
that while the prices and prospective returns on many things are justifiable today relative to
other things, you can't eat (or spend) relative returns.

Everyone's investing on the basis of relatives these days; they see no alternative. But that reminds
me of former Citigroup CEO Chuck Prince, who gained fame in the months leading up to the Global
Financial Crisis for saying of the bank's leveraged lending practices, "When the music stops, in
terms of liquidity, things will be complicated. But as long as the music is playing, you've got to get
up and dance. We're still dancing." Today I think most investors know the good times will end
someday, as Prince did, but for now they feel they, too, have no choice but to dance.

And there's one other thing we hear a lot these days:

 We agree things can't go well forever - we agree the cycle is extended, prices are elevated
 and uncertainty is high - but we don't see anything that's likely to bring the bull market to a
 close anytime soon.

In other words, there'll be a time for caution, just not today. In that connection, Andrew reminds me
about Saint Augustine, who said: "Give me chastity and continence, but not yet." Is there
something other than the punitive returns on safe assets that keeps this from being a time for
caution?

Observations and Implications

As I said, most of the phenomena described above seem reasonable given the rest of what's going on
in today's economic and financial world. But step back for perspective and put them together, and
what do we see?

 Some of the highest equity valuations in history.
 The so-called VIX index of fear at an all-time low.
 The elevation of a can't-lose group of stocks.
 The movement of more than a trillion dollars into value-agnostic investing.
 The lowest yields in history on low-rated bonds and loans.
 Yields on emerging market debt that are lower still.
 The most fundraising in history for private equity.
 The biggest fund of all time raised for levered tech investing.
 Billions in digital currencies whose value has multiplied dramatically.

I absolutely am not saying stocks are too high, the FAANGs will falter, credit investing is risky,
digital currencies are sure to end up worthless, or private equity commitments won't pay off.

All I'm saying is that for all the things listed above to simultaneously be gaining in popularity
and attracting so much capital, credulousness has to be high and risk aversion has to be low.
It's not that these things are doomed, just that their returns may not fully justify their risk.
And, more importantly, that they show the temperature of today's market to be elevated. Not
a nonsensical bubble - just high and therefore risky.

Try to think of the things that could knock today's market off kilter, like a surprising spike in
inflation, a significant slowdown in growth, central banks losing control, or the big tech stocks
running into trouble. The good news is that they all seem unlikely. The bad news is that their
unlikelihood causes all these concerns to be dismissed, leaving the markets susceptible should any of
them actually occur. That means this is a market in which riskiness is being tolerated and
perhaps ignored, and one in which most investors are happy to bear risk. Thus it's not one in
which we should do so.

What else:

 My observations are always indicative, not predictive. The usual consequences of the
 conditions I describe - like an eventual increase in risk aversion - should happen, but
 they don't have to happen.
 And they certainly don't have to happen soon. No one knows anything about timing.
 Certain consequences are implied, but even if they're going to happen, we have no way of
 knowing when. It feels like we're in the eighth inning, but I have no idea how long the game
 will go on.
 I'm never sure of my market observations. As you'll see in my new book, I believe
 strongly that where we are in a cycle says a lot about the market's likely tendencies, but I
 never state opinions on this subject with high confidence.
 As a natural worrier, I tend to be early with warnings, as described on page one. 'Nuff
 said.
 Finally, while my observations are uncertain and should be taken with a grain of salt,
 what I am sure of is that valuations and markets are elevated, and the easy money in
 this cycle has been made.

What to Do

To me, the four components of the current environment listed on pages 2 and 3 - high uncertainty,
low prospective returns, high prices and pro-risk behavior - are indisputable. The question is
whether you agree. If so, I trust you'll grant that they make for a troubling combination. Markets
normally respond to elevated uncertainty with lower asset prices and compensatorily higher returns.
But not today. Thus we're living in a low-return, high-risk world. Period.

For that reason, this might seem like an attractive time to refrain from investing, or at least from
bearing risk. However, organizations for which investing is an essential part of the business model -
like pension funds, insurance companies, endowments and sovereign wealth funds - generally don't
have the option to not invest. That's especially true when the return on cash is as low as it is today.

Further, the case for cash that can be built today from all the above could have been made
years ago, and doing so would have resulted in huge penalties. Oaktree's investment philosophy

generally causes us to eschew the raising and lowering of cash. We might make an exception in
extraordinary circumstances, but today doesn't seem to warrant doing so. Instead, Oaktree will
continue to follow its 2012 mantra: "move forward, but with caution" - and, given today's
conditions, with even more caution than in the recent past. If one is going to invest at times like
this, investment professionalism - knowing how to bear risk intelligently, striving for return
while keeping an eagle-eye on the potential adverse consequences - is the absolute sine qua non.

Environments like today's call to mind the applicability of something I was told more than 40 years
ago by Sid Cottle, editor of the later editions of Graham and Dodd's Security Analysis: "Investment
is the discipline of relative selection." I interpret that to mean we have no alternative but to choose
from among the available options based on their relative merit.

"There They Go Again" was written in May 2005, at the front end of a string of cautionary memos
leading up to the last cyclical peak. It was the first time I explicitly raised the question - too early as
usual - of how one should invest in a low-return world. I went on to list a few possibilities, none of
which was sure to work, but I concluded with the one thing I was convinced of:

 . . . there's no easy answer for investors faced with skimpy prospective returns and
 risk premiums. But there is one course of action - one classic mistake - that I most
 strongly feel is wrong: reaching for return.

The events of 2007 and 2008 showed this observation to have been prudent and appropriate.
And given today's similarities to the last cycle, I think it's applicable again.

Here's a great observation on the subject from Berkshire-Hathaway's 2010 letter to shareholders:

 We agree with investment writer Ray DeVoe's observation, "More money has been
 lost reaching for yield than at the point of a gun."

Or as Peter Bernstein put it, "The market is not an accommodating machine; it won't give you high
returns just because you need them."

The key strategic decision for anyone shaping investment strategy is whether to apply
aggressiveness or defensiveness at a given point in time. In other words, should we worry more
today about losing money or about missing opportunity? The answer at all times depends on what's
available in the investment environment.

 I have no doubt that the ascent to the apex from which the Global Financial Crisis took place
 was powered by the willing acceptance of risk in the low-return world of 2004-07. In other
 words, excessive risk tolerance and the resulting incautious behavior provided the
 foundation for the vast losses experienced in the move from peak to trough.

 And in the trough of late 2008/early '09, I likewise have no doubt that most investors were
 saying, "I don't care if I ever make another penny in the market; I just don't want to lose any
 more. Get me out!" Their excessive risk aversion created the opportunity for the huge
 returns enjoyed in the recovery.

Where are we today? As I said earlier, risk is high and prospective return is low, and the low
prospective returns on safe investments are pushing people into taking risk - which they're
willing to do - at a time when the reward for doing so is low.

Given my view of the environment, the only reason to be aggressive today is because defensive
investing implies low prospective returns. But the question is whether pursuing high expected
returns through aggressiveness can be counted on to be rewarded. If the answer is no, as I believe,
then this is a time for caution.

That doesn't mean you have to be content with a low-return portfolio. If you need returns higher
than those available in the beta markets at the low-risk end of the spectrum, it is reasonable to move
into riskier asset classes. But for every asset class, there are high-risk and low-risk approaches.
When the market is rational, low-risk investments will always appear to offer prospective
returns lower than those on high-risk ones. But in tough times, the former are less likely to
bring losses than the latter. In my opinion that makes them right for today.

 * * *

Perhaps the best way to understand investment cycles is through that great statement attributed to
Mark Twain: "History doesn't repeat, but it does rhyme." The duration, pace, amplitude and details
of each investment cycle are different from those of its predecessors, but the basic themes and
essential ingredients are usually vaguely familiar. What Twain calls rhyming history I describe as
"common threads."

The themes or threads that repeatedly characterize too-bullish markets are the ones listed on page 4.
While they don't all have to be present for a top, bull market or boom to form, (a) usually
many are present when one does and (b) it's hard for a full-throated bubble to come into
existence without them. They truly are the raw materials for market excesses on the upside.

On the other hand, the keys to avoiding the classic mistakes also recur, and I listed them in "There
They Go Again":

 awareness of history,
 belief in cycles rather than unabated, unidirectional trends,
 skepticism regarding the free lunch, and
 insistence on low purchase prices that provide lots of room for error.

 Adherence to these things - all parts of the canon of defensive investing - invariably
 will cause you to miss the most exciting part of bull markets, when trends reach
 irrational extremes and prices go from fair to excessive. But they'll also make you a
 long-term survivor. I can't help thinking that's a prerequisite for investment
 success.

The checklist for market sanity and safety is simple, and the answers will tell you what to do:

 Are prospective returns adequate?
 Are investors appropriately risk-averse?
 Are they applying skepticism and discipline?
 Are they demanding sufficient risk premiums?
 Are valuations reasonable relative to historic standards?
 Are deal structures fair to investors?
 Are investors declining any of the new deals?
 Are there limits on faith in the future?

The basic proposition is simple: Investors make the most and the safest money when they do
things other people don't want to do. But when investors are unworried and glad to make
risky investments (or worried but investing anyway, because the low-risk alternatives are
unappealing), asset prices will be high, risk premiums will be low, and markets will be risky.
That's what happens when there's too much money and too little fear.

I'll close with a final "ditto," from "The Race to the Bottom" of just over ten years ago:

 If you refuse to fall into line in carefree markets like today's, it's likely that, for a
 while, you'll (a) lag in terms of return and (b) look like an old fogey. But neither of
 those is much of a price to pay if it means keeping your head (and capital) when
 others eventually lose theirs. In my experience, times of laxness have always been
 followed eventually by corrections in which penalties are imposed. It may not
 happen this time, but I'll take that risk. In the meantime, Oaktree and its people will
 continue to apply the standards that have served us so well over the last [thirty] years.


Memo: Yet Again?.

"There They Go Again . . . Again" of July 26 has generated the most response in the 28 years I've been
writing memos, with comments coming from Oaktree clients, other readers, the print media and TV. I
also understand my comments regarding digital currencies have been the subject of extensive - and
critical - comments on social media, but my primitiveness in this regard has kept me from seeing them.

The responses and the time that has elapsed have given me the opportunity to listen, learn and think.
Thus I've decided to share some of those reflections here.

Media Reaction

The cable news shows and blogposts delivered a wide range of reactions - both positive and negative.
The best of the former came from a manager who, when asked on TV what he thought of the memo, said,
"I'd like to photocopy it and sign it and send it out as my quarterly letter." Love that guy.

I haven't spent my time reveling in the praise, but rather thinking about those who took issue. (My son
Andrew always reminds me about Warren Buffett's prescription: "praise by name, criticize by category."
Thus no names.) Here's some of what they said:

 1. "The story from Howard Marks is 'it's time to get out.' "
 2. "He's right in the concept but wrong to execute right now."
 3. "The market is a little expensive, but you should continue to ride it until there are a couple of big
 down days."
 4. "There are stocks that are past my sell points, and I'm letting them continue to burble higher."
 5. "I appreciate Howard Marks's message but I think now is no more a time to be cautious than at
 any other time. We should always invest as if the best is yet to come but the worst could be right
 around the corner. This means durable portfolios, hedges, cash reserves . . . etc. There is no
 better or worse time for any of these things that we can foresee in advance."

I take issue with all these statements, especially the last, and I want to respond - not just in the sense of
"dispute," but rather to clarify where I stand. In doing so, I'll incorporate some of what I said during my
appearances on TV following the memo's publication.

Numbers one and two are easy. As I explained on CNBC, there are two things I would never say when
referring to the market: "get out" and "it's time." I'm not that smart, and I'm never that sure. The media
like to hear people say "get in" or "get out," but most of the time the correct action is somewhere in
between.

I told Bloomberg, "Investing is not black or white, in or out, risky or safe." The key word is
"calibrate." The amount you have invested, your allocation of capital among the various
possibilities, and the riskiness of the things you own all should be calibrated along a continuum that
runs from aggressive to defensive.

And as I told CNBC, what matters is "the level that securities are trading at and the emotion that is
embodied in prices." Investors' actions should be governed by the relationship between each asset's price
and its intrinsic value. "It's not what's going on; it's how it's priced. . . . When we're getting value
cheap, we should be aggressive; when we're getting value expensive, we should pull back."

Here's how I summed up on Bloomberg:

 It's all about investors' willingness to take risk as opposed to insisting on safety. And
 when people are highly willing to take risk, and not concerned about safety, that's when I
 get worried.

If it's true, as I believe, that (a) the easy money in this cycle has been made, (b) the world is a risky place,
and (c) securities are priced high, then people should probably be taking less risk today than they did
three, five or seven years ago. Not "out," but "less risk" and "more caution."

And from my visit to CNBC:

 All I'm saying is that prices are elevated; prospective returns are low; risks are high;
 people are engaging in risky behavior. Now nobody disagrees with any of the four of
 those, and if not, then it seems to me that this is a time for increased caution. . . . It's
 maybe "in, but maybe a little less than you used to be in." Or maybe "in as much as you
 used to be in, but with less-risky securities."

Numbers three and four - arguing that it's too early to sell even if the market is expensive or
holdings are past their sell point - are interesting. They're either (a) absolutely illogical or (b) signs
of the investor error and lack of discipline that are typical in bull markets.

 If the market is expensive, why wouldn't you lighten up?
 Why would you prefer to sell after a few big down days, rather than today? (What if the big
 down days are the start of a slide so big that you can't get out at anything close to fair value?
 What if there's a big down day followed by a big up day that gets you right back where you
 started? Does the process re-set? And is it three big down days in a row, or four?)
 And if you continue to hold past your sell points, what does "sell point" mean?

Bottom line: I think these things translate into "I want to think of myself as disciplined and analytical, but
even more I want to make sure I don't miss out on further gains." In other words, fear of missing out has
taken over from value discipline, a development that is a sure sign of a bull market.

The fifth and final comment - that one should exercise the same degree of care and risk aversion at
all times - gives me a lot to talk about. In working on my new book, I divided the things an investor
can do to achieve above average performance into two general categories:

 • selection: trying to hold more of the things that will do better and less of the things that will do
 worse, and
 • cycle adjustment: trying to have more risk exposure when markets rise and less when they fall.

Accepting that "there is no better or worse time" simply means giving up on the latter. Whereas
Buffett tells us to "be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful" - and he's got a
pretty good track record - this commentator seems to be saying we should be equally greedy (and equally
fearful) all the time.

I feel strongly that it's possible to improve investment results by adjusting your positioning to fit the
market, and Oaktree was able to do so by turning highly cautious in 2005-06 and highly aggressive in
1990-91, 2001-02 and immediately after the Lehman bankruptcy filing in 2008. This was done on the
basis of reasoned judgments concerning:

 • how markets have been acting,
 • the level of valuations,
 • the ease of executing risky financings,
 • the status of investor psychology and behavior,
 • the presence of greed versus fear, and
 • where the markets stand in their usual cycle.

Is this effort in conflict with the tenet of Oaktree's investment philosophy that says macro-forecasting
isn't key to our investing? My answer is an emphatic "no." Importantly, assessing these things only
requires observations regarding the present, not a single forecast.

As I say regularly, "We may not know where we're going, but we sure as heck ought to know where
we stand." Observations regarding valuation and investor behavior can't tell you what'll happen
tomorrow, but they say a lot about where we stand today, and thus about the odds that will govern the
intermediate term. They can tell you whether to be more aggressive or more defensive; they just can't be
expected to always be correct, and certainly not correct right away.

The person who said "there is no better or worse time" was on TV with me, giving me a chance to push
back. What he meant, he said, was that the vast majority of people lack the ability to discern where we
stand in this regard, so they might as well not try.

I agree that it's hard. Up-and-down cycles are usually triggered by changes in fundamentals and
pushed to their extremes by swings in emotion. Everyone is exposed to the same fundamental
information and emotional influences, and if you respond to them in a typical fashion, your
behavior will be typical: pro-cyclical and painfully wrong at the extremes. To do better - to
succeed at being contrarian and anti-cyclical - you have to (a) have an understanding of cycles,
which can be gained through either experience or studying history, and (b) be able to control your
emotional reaction to external stimuli. Clearly this isn't easy, and if average investors (i.e., the people
who drive cycles to extremes) could do it, the extremes wouldn't be as high and low as they are. But
investors should still try. If they can't be explicitly contrarian - doing the opposite at the extremes (which
admittedly is hard) - how about just refusing to go along with the herd?

Here's what I wrote with respect to the difficulty of doing this in "On the Couch" (January 2016):

 I want to make it abundantly clear that when I call for caution in 2006-07, or active
 buying in late 2008, or renewed caution in 2012, or a somewhat more aggressive stance
 here in early 2016, I do it with considerable uncertainty. My conclusions are the result of
 my reasoning, applied with the benefit of my experience (and collaboration with my
 Oaktree colleagues), but I never consider them 100% likely to be correct, or even 80%. I
 think they're right, of course, but I always make my recommendations with
 trepidation.

When widespread euphoria and optimism cause asset prices to meaningfully exceed intrinsic values and
normal valuation metrics, at some point we must take note and increase caution. And yet, invariably, the
market will continue to march upward for a while to even greater excesses, making us look wrong. This
is an inescapable consequence of trying to know where we stand and take appropriate action. But

it's still worthwhile. Even though no one can ascertain when we're at the exact top or bottom, a key to
successful investing lies in selling - or lightening up - when we're closer to the top, and buying - or,
hopefully, loading up - when we're closer to the bottom.

FAANGs

There's been a lot of discussion regarding my comments on the FAANGs - Facebook, Amazon, Apple,
Netflix and Google - and whether they're a "sell." Some of them are trading at p/e ratios that are just on
the high side of average, while others, sporting triple-digit p/e's, are clearly being valued more on hoped-
for growth than on their current performance.

But whether these stocks should be sold, held or bought was never my concern. As I said on
Bloomberg:

 My point about the FAANGs was not that they are bad investments individually, or that
 they are overvalued. It was that the anointment of one group of super-stocks is indicative
 of a bull market. You can't have a group treated like the FAANGs have been treated
 in a cautious, pessimistic, sober market. So that should not be read as a complaint
 about that group, but rather indicative [of the state of the market].

That's everything I have to say on the subject.

Bitcoin

As I said earlier, there has been particularly spirited response to my comments on digital currencies. It
prompted me to sit down with people ranging from some of my Oaktree colleagues to Steven Bregman
and Murray Stahl of Horizon Kinetics (my July memo incorporated some of Steven's observations on
ETFs), and I learned that I've been looking at Bitcoin the wrong way. In particular, I realized that the
memo incorporated the wrong joke from my father; instead of "the half-million-dollar hamster," it should
have been this one:

 Two friends meet in the street, and Jim tells Sue he has some great sardines for sale. The
 fish are pedigreed and pure-bred, with full papers and high IQs. They were individually
 de-boned by hand and packed in the purest virgin olive oil. And the label was painted by
 a world-renowned artist.

 Sue says, "That sounds great. I could use a tin. How much are they?" and Jim tells her
 they're $10,000. Sue responds, "That's crazy, who would eat $10,000 sardines?" "Oh,"
 says Jim, "these aren't eating sardines; these are trading sardines."

I had been thinking about digital currencies like Bitcoin as investing sardines, and that may have
been a mistake. Their fans tell me they're spending sardines, and while that may be the case, I
think at the moment they're being treated largely as trading sardines. The question remains open
as to whether Bitcoin is (a) a currency, (b) a payment mechanism, (c) an asset class, or (d) a
medium for speculation.

The main complaint expressed in my memo was as follows:

 Serious investing consists of buying things because the price is attractive relative to
 intrinsic value. Speculation, on the other hand, occurs when people buy something
 without any consideration of its underlying value or the appropriateness of its price,
 solely because they think others will pay more for it in the future.

In the memo I talked about Bitcoin as an investment asset that should have a value that can be appraised.
While its fans tell me this isn't the right way to view it, I note that in their February "Bitcoin Review,"
even Steven and Murray called it "a new asset class." I think this is the weakest claim being made about
Bitcoin. As I said in the memo, "it's not real" - there is no intrinsic value behind it.

What Bitcoin partisans have told me subsequently is that Bitcoin should be thought of as a currency - a
medium of exchange - not an investment asset. Given that the evolution of Bitcoin is so topical, I think
further discussion is in order. To start, I'm going to present the case for it as a currency. What are the
characteristics of a currency?

 Most importantly, it's something that people agree can be used as legal tender (to buy things
 and pay debts), used as a store of value, and exchanged for other currencies.
 Currencies generally are created by governments. However, there have been exceptions: banks
 issued their own currencies in our nation's first century, and it can be argued that the "Green
 Stamps" of my childhood, and airline miles today, have a lot in common with currencies.
 For a long time currencies were backed by (and exchangeable for) gold or silver, but that's no
 longer the case. The truth is, there's nothing behind currencies these days other than their issuing
 governments' "full faith and credit." But what do they promise? New currencies are sometimes
 created out of thin air (like the euro, which wasn't legal tender sixteen years ago), and sometimes
 they're devalued.
 Currencies change in value relative to each other, in theory based on differential purchasing
 power, and in practice based on changes in supply and demand (which can stem, among other
 things, from changes in purchasing power).

Bitcoin fans argue that it qualifies as a currency under these criteria: most importantly, it's
something that parties can agree to accept as legal tender and a store of value. That actually seems
right.

When I first responded to comments on the memo - even before my recent enlightenment - I found
myself admitting that much of the criticism I had leveled at Bitcoin is applicable to the dollar as
well. Whereas I said Bitcoin "isn't real" because it has no intrinsic or underlying value, that's certainly
true of the dollar and other fiat currencies: there's nothing behind them either. You can no longer
exchange them for gold (and what is gold, anyway? But that's another subject). In fact, government-
issued fiat currencies are accorded value only because of a government edict. Why, the fans of Bitcoin
ask, is such an edict superior to an agreement among people to accept a non-government-issued
currency? Fiat currencies have value simply because of faith in the governments that issue them.
If enough people believe in it, why can't faith in Bitcoin suffice? If you consider the properties of
fiat currencies, these are darn good questions.

So my initial bottom line is that I see no reason why Bitcoin can't be a currency, since it shares the
characteristics listed above, especially the fact that there are people (and businesses and even countries)
that accept it as legal tender.

But that's not good enough for Bitcoin's fans. It's not the same as the dollar, they say; it's better. In
all the following ways, they've told me, Bitcoin is superior to government-issued currency:

 All the relevant data regarding Bitcoin - number outstanding, number newly created, and
 transactions - are recorded in the "blockchain," a sort of transparent electronic ledger of which
 everyone can have his or her own copy.
 Bitcoin can't be debased by unlimited issuance, since the blockchain process has been set to
 permit only a gradual increase from today's 16 million, to 21 million in 2140. In this sense
 Bitcoin is better than the dollar, of which a lot more can be issued at any time, diminishing its
 purchasing power through inflation. As Steven and Murray have written, "a purchase of Bitcoin
 is nothing other than a short sale of the currencies of the world. Merely by limiting the growth of
 supply, Bitcoin would become more valuable as other currencies devalue."
 Since the blockchain exists on each person's individual computer, rather than in a central
 location, it can't be hacked, and thus Bitcoin can't be stolen, counterfeited, or secretly created in
 amounts exceeding the authorized total. Likewise, Bitcoin isn't subject to the currency controls
 on portability that are often imposed by failing governments. (But I wonder whether the
 technological claims made for the blockchain might be its Achilles' heel. While I certainly don't
 have the ability to assess these claims for myself, I wonder how many of Bitcoin's advocates do
 either.)

Where will we go from here? The partisans claim the outlook for Bitcoin as a currency is bright:

 Since very few people own it today but millions more will want it in the future, demand is sure to
 rise faster than supply, meaning the price will rise.
 Specifically, the U.S. money supply is almost $14 trillion, so if people and businesses decide to
 hold just one-third of their wealth in Bitcoin rather than dollars, (and who wouldn't want to do so
 given all the advantages described above?), the value of the Bitcoin in circulation will rise to $4.5
 trillion, from today's $73 billion, for a gain of roughly 60x.
 There's sure to be a network effect: the more people join the Bitcoin movement, the more it will
 be accepted as legal tender, the more useful it will be, and the more demand will increase.
 Ignoring Bitcoin's utility as currency, many people will buy just because they believe someone
 else will pay them more for it. (This time-honored "greater-fool theory" lies at the heart of all
 speculative manias.) Likewise, people will buy it because of fear of missing out, another bull-
 market standard.

There's absolutely no reason why Bitcoin - or anything else - can't serve as a currency if enough people
accept it as such. While I'd point out that no private currency has gained widespread use in a long, long
time, there's nothing to say it can't happen.

Being willing to agree that Bitcoin may become an accepted medium of exchange is not the same as
saying you should buy it now to make money. Think about the fact that the price of Bitcoin has risen
more than 350% so far this year and 3,900% in the last three years. To the degree people argue that
Bitcoin is a currency, then (a) why is it so volatile? and (b) is that desirable? You might want to consider
whether a real currency can do that, or whether speculative buying is determining Bitcoin's price. And
whether what's gone up can come down.

The immediate issue of Bitcoin as a currency still comes down to the question of whether today's
price is right. The price of a Bitcoin is around $4,600 today. Can one Bitcoin buy the same amount of
goods as 4,600 dollar bills? Or the much higher amounts that Bitcoin bulls think it will soon be worth? I
don't think we have enough information to know, but the question isn't irrelevant. If it were, this would
be another case of "there's no price too high."

The other purported use for Bitcoin, given its status as what Marc Andreessen calls a "digital bearer
instrument," is as a payment mechanism. Its advantages in this regard include the following:

 transactions in Bitcoin can be anonymous (I understand it is often used to pay for opioids),
 payments are made without fees like those charged on credit card transactions and wire transfers,
 there can't be fraud and merchant charge-backs like with credit cards, and
 it can be particularly useful in emerging nations lacking developed payment systems.

But I see two issues here:

 First, I expect there to be many competing transaction systems. Will the banks and other
 financial institutions cede this territory to Bitcoin? Wouldn't banks' systems be more likely to
 gain acceptance from people other than perhaps millennials? What would happen to Bitcoin's
 utility as a payment mechanism if Amazon announced its own? Would you rather transact in
 Bitcoin or Amazonians?
 Second, if Bitcoin were to become the leading non-governmental payment system, what would
 cause it to appreciate? If you want to pay me in Bitcoin and I'll accept it, what would cause its
 price to rise? Adherents would argue that the limited supply relative to the growing use will
 make the price rise. But that assumes there's no price so high for Bitcoin that transferees won't
 accept it in lieu of dollars. The "pro" side of the argument foresees limitless appreciation, but
 that doesn't make sense. Think of any other currency: isn't there a price at which you wouldn't
 accept it? Would you sell your house for euros that are said to be worth two or three times as
 much as the dollar?

Marc Andreessen wrote an excellent article in The New York Times' Dealbook, titled "Why Bitcoin
Matters" (January 21, 2014). The article outlined Bitcoin's potential as a payment system and described
many of the advantages listed above. But it didn't include one word about why these advantages give
Bitcoin appreciation potential.

So what's my real bottom line?

 Advocates say if Bitcoin is accepted as described above, you'll make more than 50 times your
 money. Thus success doesn't have to be highly probable for buying Bitcoin to have a huge
 expected return. This is called "lottery-ticket thinking," under which it seems smart to bet
 on an improbable outcome that offers a huge potential payoff. We saw it in full flower in the
 dot-com boom in 1999-2000, and I think we're seeing it in action again today with regard to
 Bitcoin. Nothing is as seductive as the possibility of vast wealth.
 Several of the "seeds for a boom" that I listed in "There They Go Again . . . Again" are at work in
 the Bitcoin surge: (a) there is a grain of underlying truth as set out above; (b) there's the
 prospect of a virtuous circle: widespread demand will lead to wider acceptance as legal tender,
 which will lead to widespread demand; and (c) thus this tree may grow to the sky, as there is no
 obvious limit to this logic. None of these things necessarily make Bitcoin a mistake. They
 merely say elements that contributed to past bubbles can be detected today with regard to Bitcoin.
 Finally, Bitcoin isn't alone. There are hundreds of digital currencies already - including eleven
 with market capitalizations over a billion dollars - and no limits on the creation of new ones. So
 even if digital currencies are here to stay, who knows which one will turn out to be the winner?
 Hundreds of e-commerce start-ups appreciated rapidly in the tech bubble based on the premise
 that "the Internet will change the world." It did, but most of the companies ended up worthless.

Thanks to the people who took the time to educate me, I'm a little less of a dinosaur regarding Bitcoin
than I was when I wrote my last memo. I think I understand what a digital currency is, how Bitcoin
works, and some of the arguments for it. But I still don't feel like putting my money into it, because I
consider it a speculative bubble. I'm willing to be proved wrong.

Passive Investing

Passive investing can be thought of as a low-risk, low-cost and non-opinionated way to participate in "the
market," and that view is making it more and more popular. But I continue to think about the impact of
passive investing on the market.

One of the most important things to always bear in mind is George Soros's "theory of reflexivity," which
I paraphrase as saying that the efforts of investors to master the market affect the market they're trying to
master. In other words, how would golf be if the course played back: if the efforts of golfers to put
their shot in the right place caused the right place to become the wrong place? That's certainly the
case with investing.

It's tempting to think of the investment environment as an unchanging backdrop, that is, an independent
variable. Then all you have to do is figure out the right course of action and take it. But what if the
environment is a dependent variable? Does the behavior of investors alter the environment in which they
work? Of course it does.

The early foundation for passive or index investing lay in the belief that the efforts of active investors
cause stocks to be priced fairly, so that they offer a fair risk-adjusted return. This "efficiency" makes it
hard for mispricings to exist and for investors to identify them. "The average investor does average
before fees," I was taught, "and thus below average after fees. You might as well throw darts."

There's less talk of dart-throwing these days, but much more money is being invested passively. If you
want an index's performance and believe active managers can't deliver it (or beat it) after their
high fees, why not just buy a little of every stock in the index? That way you'll invest in the stocks
in the index in proportion to their representation, which is presumed to be "right" since it is set by
investors assessing their fundamentals. (Of course there's a contradiction in this. Active managers
have been judged to be unable to beat the market but competent to set appropriate market weightings for
the passive investors to rely on. But why quibble?)

The trend toward passive investing has made great strides. Roughly 35% of all U.S. equity investing is
estimated to be done on a passive basis today, leaving 65% for active management. However, Raj
Mahajan of Goldman Sachs estimates that already a substantial majority of daily trading is originated by
quantitative and systematic strategies including passive vehicles, quantitative/algorithmic funds and
electronic market makers. In other words, just a fraction of trades have what Raj calls "originating
decision makers" that are human beings making fundamental value judgments regarding companies and
their stocks, and performing "price discovery" (that is, implementing their views of what something's
worth through discretionary purchases and sales).

What percentage of assets has to be actively managed by investors driven by fundamentals and value for
stocks to be priced "right," market weightings to be reasonable and passive investing to be sensible? I
don't think there's a way to know, but people say it can be as little as 20%. If that's true, active,
fundamentally driven investing will determine stock prices for a long time to come. But what if it takes
more?

Passive investing is done in vehicles that make no judgments about the soundness of companies and the
fairness of prices. More than $1 billion is flowing daily to "passive managers" (there's an oxymoron for
you) who buy regardless of price. I've always viewed index funds as "freeloaders" who make use of the
consensus decisions of active investors for free. How comfortable can investors be these days, now
that fewer and fewer active decisions are being made?

Certainly the process described above can introduce distortions. At the simplest level, if all equity
capital flows into index funds for their dependability and low cost, then the stocks in the indices will
be expensive relative to those outside them. That will create widespread opportunities for active
managers to find bargains among the latter. Today, with the proliferation of ETFs and their emphasis
on the scalable market leaders, the FAANGs are a good example of insiders that are flying high, at
least partially on the strength of non-discretionary buying.

I'm not saying the passive investing process is faulty, just that it deserves more scrutiny than it's getting
today.

The State of the Market

There has been a lot of discussion about how elevated I think the market is. I've pushed back strongly
against people who describe me as "super-bearish." In short, as I wrote in the memo, I believe the
market is "not a nonsensical bubble - just high and therefore risky."

I wouldn't use the word "bubble" to describe today's general investment environment. It happens that
our last two experiences were bubble-crash (1998-2002) and bubble-crash (2005-09). But that
doesn't mean every advance will become a bubble, or that by definition it will be followed by a crash.

 Current psychology cannot be described as "euphoric" or "over-the-moon." Most people seem to
 be aware of the uncertainties that are present and of the fact that the good times won't roll on
 forever.
 Since there hasn't been an economic boom in this recovery, there doesn't have to be a major bust.
 Leverage at the banks is a fraction of the levels reached in 2007, and it was those levels that gave
 rise to the meltdowns we witnessed.
 Importantly, sub-prime mortgages and sub-prime-based mortgage backed securities were the key
 ingredient whose failure directly caused the Global Financial Crisis, and I see no analog to them
 today, either in magnitude or degree of dubiousness.

It's time for caution, as I wrote in the memo, not a full-scale exodus. There is absolutely no reason to
expect a crash. There may be a painful correction, or in theory the markets could simply drift down to
more reasonable levels - or stay flat as earnings increase - over a long period (although most of the time,
as my partner Sheldon Stone says, "the air goes out of the balloon much faster than it went in").

Investing in a Low-Return World

A lot of the questions I've gotten on the memo are one form or another of "So what should I do?" Thus
I've realized the memo was diagnostic but not sufficiently prescriptive. I should have spent more time on
the subject of what behavior is right for the environment I think we're in.

In the low-return world I described in the memo, the options are limited:

 1. Invest as you always have and expect your historic returns.
 2. Invest as you always have and settle for today's low returns.
 3. Reduce risk to prepare for a correction and accept still-lower returns.
 4. Go to cash at a near-zero return and wait for a better environment.
 6. Put more into special niches and special investment managers.

It would be sheer folly to expect to earn traditional returns today from investing like you've done
traditionally (#1). With the risk-free rate of interest near zero and the returns on all other investments
scaled based on that, I dare say few if any asset classes will return in the next few years what they've
delivered historically.

Thus one of the sensible courses of action is to invest as you did in the past but accept that returns
will be lower. Sensible, but not highly satisfactory. No one wants to make less than they used to, and the
return needs of institutions such as pension funds and endowments are little changed. Thus #2 is difficult.

If you believe what I said in the memo about the presence of risk today, you might want to opt for #3. In
the future people may demand higher prospective returns or increased prospective risk compensation, and
the way investments would provide them would be through a correction that lowers their prices. If you
think a correction is coming, reducing your risk makes sense. But what if it takes years for it to
arrive? Since Treasurys currently offer 1-2% and high yield bonds offer 5-6%, for example, fleeing to the
safety of Treasurys would cost you about 4% per year. What if it takes years to be proved right?

Going to cash (#4) is the extreme example of risk reduction. Are you willing to accept a return of zero
as the price for being assured of avoiding a possible correction? Most investors can't or won't
voluntarily sign on for zero returns.

All the above leads to #5: increasing risk as the way to earn high returns in a low-return world. But
if the presence of elevated risk in the environment truly means a correction lies ahead at some point, risk
should be increased only with care. As I said in the memo, every investment decision can be
implemented in high-risk or low-risk ways, and in risk-conscious or risk-oblivious ways. High risk does
not assure higher returns. It means accepting greater uncertainty with the goal of higher returns and the
possibility of substantially lower (or negative) returns. I'm convinced that at this juncture it should be
done with great care, if at all.

And that leaves #6. "Special niches and special people," if they can be identified, can deliver higher
returns without proportionally more risk. That's what "special" means to me, and it seems like the ideal
solution. But it's not easy. Pursuing this tack has to be based on the belief that (a) there are inefficient
markets and (b) you or your managers have the exceptional skill needed to exploit them. Simply put, this
can't be done without risk, as one's choice of market or manager can easily backfire.

As I mentioned above, none of these possibilities is attractive or a sure thing. But there are no
others. What would I do? For me the answer lies in a combination of numbers 2, 3 and 6.

Expecting normal returns from normal activities (#1) is out in my book, as are settling for zero in cash
(#4) and amping up risk in the hope of draws from the favorable part of the probability distribution (#5)
(our current position in the elevated part of the cycle decreases the likelihood that outcomes will be
favorable).

Thus I would mostly do the things I always have done and accept that returns will be lower than they
traditionally have been (#2). While doing the usual, I would increase the caution with which I do it (#3),
even at the cost of a reduction in expected return. And I would emphasize "alpha markets" where hard
work and skill might add to returns (#6), since there are no "beta markets" that offer generous returns
today.

These things are all embodied in our implementation of the mantra that has guided Oaktree in
recent years: "move forward, but with caution."

Since the U.S. economy continues to bump along, growing moderately, there's no reason to expect a
recession anytime soon. As a consequence, it's inappropriate to bet that a correction of high prices and
pro-risk behavior will occur in the immediate future (but also, of course, that it won't).

Thus Oaktree is investing today wherever good investment opportunities arise, and we're not afraid to be
fully invested where there are enough of them. But we are employing caution, and since we're a firm that
thinks of itself as always being cautious, that means more caution than usual.

This posture has served us extremely well in recent years. Our underlying conservatism has given us the
confidence needed to be largely fully invested, and this has permitted us to participate when the markets
performed better than expected, as they did in 2016 and several of the last six years. Thus we'll continue
to follow our mantra, as we think it positions us well for the uncertain environment that lies ahead.