Memo: Political Reality Meets Economic Reality.

In 2016 I wrote Economic Reality (in May) and Political Reality (in August), two memos covering
subjects I thought were important and timely. In the latter, I summed up Economic Reality as follows:

 [It] describes the ways in which economics defines and constrains reality in business,
 investing and everyday life. Economics establishes the rules of the game and the
 boundaries of the playing field, and these things can't be ignored. They can be altered,
 but not without consequences.

 The realities of economics are stark and consistent, but also logical. They aren't
 absolute, like the laws of physics (e.g., gravity), but they reliably establish tendencies and
 limits.

The point is that the field of economics covers the choices people and organizations face; the costs,
possible rewards and potential consequences; and how decisions regarding those choices are made.
These are the bases on which people enter into economic transactions. More than anything else, perhaps,
economics is the study of choice.

Three months later, in Political Reality, I said:

 I've always gotten a kick out of oxymorons - phrases that are internally contradictory -
 such as "jumbo shrimp" and "common sense." I'll add "political reality" to the list. The
 world of politics has its own, altered reality, in which economic reality often seems not to
 impinge. No choices need be made: candidates can promise it all. And there are no
 consequences. If something might have negative consequences in the real world,
 politicians seem to feel free to ignore them. . . .

The purpose of this memo is to describe what happens when political behavior collides with
economic reality, as illustrated in one area where the government is taking steps - tariffs - and
another in which debate among politicians is heating up - restrictions on the capitalist system.

Before I move forward, I'd like to state up front, as I did in Economic Reality in 2016, that I'm
not writing to make political judgments or to make any politician or party look bad. But
economic pronouncements can't be separated from the people who make them. If you read through to
the end, you'll see I find something to complain about in the approach of members of both parties.

Tariffs

Tariffs are very much in the news these days, and their complexity renders them ripe for error and thus
appropriate for discussion here.

Many people - albeit President Trump's supporters more often than economists in general - applaud his
decision to impose tariffs against China. Whereas the simple story was that he was doing so to (a) reduce
our trade deficit with China, (b) support U.S. manufacturers and (c) protect U.S. jobs, there's more in
play. In The Wall Street Journal of October 20, Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign
Relations, an independent, nonpartisan organization, enumerated complaints that have been lodged
against China in the area of trade:

 . . . higher-than-warranted tariff and non-tariff barriers, forced transfers of technology,
 theft of intellectual property, government subsidies and currency manipulation designed
 to make exports cheaper and to reduce the demand for imports.

Everyone knowledgeable tells me these complaints are warranted. While they're not new, past presidents
don't seem to have done much about them, or at any rate didn't produce any results. Clearly Trump likes
to take action and doesn't shy away from confrontation. Given that China's economy is much more
reliant on exports to the U.S. than ours is on exports to China - and given China's need for rapid
economic growth in order to reach its goals - imposing tariffs represents a possible way for Trump to get
China to alter its behavior.

Thus rather than criticize Trump's tariffs, I'm going to use them as an example to illustrate the
central messages of this memo: (a) economic actions have costs and consequences, (b) for that
reason, it's generally safe to say there are no simple solutions to complex problems, (c) given the
complexities, few people thoroughly understand economics, and (d) because of that understanding
deficit, politicians' proposed solutions often fail to receive the scrutiny they should.

First, there's misunderstanding. The U.S. runs chronic trade deficits with most of its trading partners, and
with China it amounted to $335 billion in 2017. Trump takes these deficits to mean our trading partners
are winning and we're losing. "We have countries ripping us off for years. . . . We have trade deficits;
they have surpluses." In particular, he says "China's been killing us," suggesting there's something
nefarious about trade deficits. But is that the correct inference? The other day I went to the barber for a
haircut, and when I paid him, I ran a trade deficit. He got my money, and I got a haircut. I didn't feel like
I had lost. Likewise, Chinese businesses make money from the U.S., and U.S. consumers get the low-
priced goods they want. Both sound like winners to me.

Trump has said, "If we didn't trade, we'd save a hell of a lot of money." Would we? That would be true
only if we didn't otherwise buy the things we've been importing, or if we were able to buy them cheaper
domestically. Would it really save us money to not trade with China?

After all, who pays tariffs? They're a tax paid by exporters and presumably passed on to consumers in
the countries into which goods are imported. So it's not enough to say "exporters are paying increased
tariffs." It's also likely that U.S. consumers are paying increased prices for the goods they consume.

If tariffs are paid by consumers in the importing nations, what's to be accomplished by imposing them?
In short, it's done to raise the cost of foreign goods and thus discourage their consumption. But
that leads us to the knock-on effects: what else happens?

Let's take the first shot fired in last year's escalation on trade: the imposition of tariffs of 25% on
imported steel and 10% on imported aluminum. Here are some of the many possible complications,
ramifications and second-order consequences:

 Tariffs on imported intermediate goods such as steel and aluminum might increase the cost of
 finished goods manufactured in the U.S., rendering them less competitive if their prices are raised
 (or less profitable if they're not). According to The New York Times of July 4, 2018:

 The Aluminum Association, which represents the bulk of the American industry,
 says that 97 percent of American jobs in aluminum are at what are called
 "downstream" businesses that shape the metal into things like auto parts and other
 goods. Those companies are hurt by Mr. Trump's tariffs, because they now must
 pay higher prices for their raw materials.

 To avoid paying tariffs, American manufacturers could reduce their imports of foreign steel and
 aluminum for use in the finished goods they make, and instead increase their imports of finished
 goods - which are not subject to the tariffs - made abroad with foreign steel and aluminum.

 Going beyond importing finished goods, American companies could move their manufacturing
 overseas, cutting domestic jobs. The overseas use of untaxed, low-cost metals could provide a
 competitive edge when those finished goods are imported into the U.S.

 Non-U.S. companies likewise could gain an advantage over their American competitors. Their
 use of untaxed, low-cost materials could give them lower selling prices or higher profit margins
 when exporting finished goods to the U.S.

 Despite the cost increases caused by tariffs, imports might not actually be discouraged and U.S.
 production encouraged, simply because U.S. capacity doesn't exist:

 "The reality is there's not enough aluminum made here," said Eric Krepps, who runs
 the North American automotive business at Constellium NV, a Dutch aluminum
 company. "We could not source everything out of the U.S. even if we wanted to,"
 . . . since the U.S. produces just 13% of the 5.6 million metric tons of raw aluminum
 it uses each year. (The Wall Street Journal, July 18, 2018)

 Since tariffs might raise selling prices on imported goods (or goods incorporating imported
 materials and components), the reduced competitiveness of those imports could enable domestic
 producers to raise their prices. The result would be higher consumer prices on all brands.

 Countries whose goods are subjected to tariff increases are unlikely to just sit there and take it.
 Retaliation is always a reasonable expectation. "While tariffs help some companies, they have
 the potential to hurt thousands of others. Businesses that depend on access to overseas markets
 are being hit with retaliatory tariffs . . . ." (The New York Times, August 7, 2018)

 Finally, a trade war centered on escalating tariffs makes the global environment less stable,
 reducing predictability and increasing uncertainty. This isn't good for any economy.

Going beyond steel and aluminum, increased tariffs on imported automobiles and auto components have
been under discussion for much of the past year. Some of the considerations described above regarding
steel and aluminum don't apply to cars, since they're finished goods, not intermediate goods. But a
number of additional elements create exceptional complexity:

 U.S. companies manufacture cars in the U.S. for sale abroad.
 U.S. companies manufacture cars abroad for import to the U.S.
 Some of the biggest manufacturers of cars in the U.S. are non-U.S. companies.
 Many of the cars produced in the U.S. by non-U.S. companies are destined for export.
 Cars made in the U.S. incorporate a lot of components made elsewhere.
 Of the cars sold in the U.S. last year, 44% were imported.

On July 20, The New York Times discussed the possibility of increased tariffs on autos as follows:

 If imposed, the tariffs would most likely have deeper and wider-reaching repercussions
 for the economies than levies on fish or steel. Cars don't come together in one plant,
 with one work force - they're the final result of hundreds of companies working together
 in a supply chain that can snake through small American towns and cross oceans.

Thus increased tariffs on automotive imports could bring about:

 an increase in the price of all cars bought by Americans,
 a resultant decline in the number of cars sold,
 tougher times for manufacturers, dealers, support businesses and their employees, and
 thus a general contraction of the economy. (In July the IMF projected that "currently announced
 tariffs would reduce global economic output by $430 billion, or half a percent, in 2020, if they
 remained in place and shook consumer confidence." (The New York Times, July 23, 2018))

The bottom line is that tariffs aren't a simple solution or a sure thing. They're a tool or tactic with
potential benefits, but also costs and risks. They can help some parts of the economy and
simultaneously harm others. In other words, they're a tradeoff. That's the key word in economics.
The question is whether they're worth it. In good part, it depends on whom you ask.

 One study of the Obama tire tariffs found in a single year, 2011, Americans spent an
 extra $1.1 billion on tires as a result of a tariff that preserved, at most, 1,200 jobs. That is
 almost $1 million per job, for jobs paying an average of about $40,000.

 Steel tariffs imposed in 2002 by President George W. Bush yielded similar results,
 penalizing not just consumers but companies that use steel to make other products, like
 construction companies and carmakers. The Dartmouth economist Douglas Irwin
 estimated 140,000 American workers make steel, while 6.5 million workers make
 products that include steel.

 "If for some reason you said, 'We just want to help steel producers, shareholders,
 possibly steel workers,' it makes sense," Mr. Irwin said. "If you care about
 manufacturing employment or the manufacturing sector, it doesn't make sense." (The
 New York Times, September 17, 2018)

I'll move to wrap up on the subject of tariffs with a few paragraphs from Economic Reality:

 Have the voters who think it's a great idea to "bring back the jobs" thought about what
 goods manufactured at U.S. wages - or tariffs designed to bring the cost of Chinese
 goods up to those levels - would do to their cost of living? I'd guess not. How will the
 interests of the 3.2 million Americans estimated to have lost their manufacturing
 jobs to China be balanced against the hundreds of millions who would have to pay
 considerably more for imported goods? Not an easy question.

 Quotas, tariffs and subsidies are all ways for countries to protect industries that can't hold
 their own against international competitors without these things. Thus they're a good
 example of ways in which policy decisions can lead to distortions. Since the industries
 for which tariffs and subsidies are established are, by definition, industries that
 can't compete without them, for these things to be enacted, someone has to make a
 decision that (a) these industries should be kept afloat and (b) consumers of these
 industries' goods should be prevented from paying the lower prices that would
 prevail if consumers had easy access to goods from abroad, free of tariffs. . . .

 The bottom line, as with so many of the things I'm discussing here, is that economic laws
 cannot be ignored or magical solutions willed to appear. While it's far from the entire
 explanation, the main reason the U.S. has lost manufacturing jobs to foreign countries is
 that people there are willing to work for much less. In this globalized world, that
 means Americans can't enjoy both the high-paying manufacturing jobs they used to
 have and the low-cost goods they've been buying of late. The imposition of tariffs
 can't solve that conundrum.

On two occasions last summer, while discussing the steel and aluminum tariffs, The Wall Street Journal
did a good job of summing up the key considerations:

 The fallout, while so far limited, illustrates how efforts to protect some companies can
 cause unintended pain for others. (June 4, 2018)

 Put into practice, tariffs are a complex economic weapon that can ricochet through an
 economy in ways even proponents don't expect. (July 17, 2018)

As mentioned earlier, I'm not writing here to criticize tariffs (or administrations that impose them), but
rather to show (a) it's not easy for government actions to improve the functioning of economies and (b)
there are ramifications to be considered. Tariffs are typical of economic reality, and economic reality is
complex, in large part because it consists mainly of dividing resources among participants, not of creating
more for everyone. As economists like to say, "There's no such thing as a free lunch."

Anti-Capitalism

Something else is going on that I worry about far more than the imposition of tariffs: increasing
anti-capitalist sentiment.

One of the big trends in politics in recent years has been the rise of populism. While populism is
somewhat amorphous, here's a definition for the purposes of this memo:

 A political philosophy supporting the rights and power of the people in their struggle
 against the privileged elite. (The Free Dictionary)

I think it's important to add another word with regard to the adoption of populism as a political strategy: it
plays on resentment on the part of "the people" toward "the elite."

Populism has been on the rise in Europe for a number of years, generally associated with the political
right and characterized by resentment toward economic, liberal and urban elites. It has often been
accompanied by authoritarianism, allowing charismatic strongmen to present themselves as protecting
"the people" from looming threats like immigration.

A good part of the credit for Donald Trump's election in 2016 has likewise been attributed to populism.
This instance, also coming from the right, was largely built on resentment from rural, white, older and
less-educated voters directed at urban, establishment, educated and cultural elites, as well as unhappiness
with social and demographic trends that are disrupting the status quo.

But as shown in the 2016 presidential Democratic primary contests and since, another wave of populism
has arisen from the left. I'm most concerned that in this case, the principal targets of popular
resentment are capitalism and capitalists.

One of the big stories of the 2016 primary season was the success of avowed Democratic Socialist
Senator Bernie Sanders. Sanders launched a challenge to Hillary Clinton, the heir-apparent to the
leadership of the Democratic Party and eventually the chosen nominee. He gained a lot of followers and
gave Clinton a run for her money, in particular by emphasizing economic justice, the corrosive effect of
money (and especially corporate money) in politics, and the promise of healthcare and education for all.

Following on Sanders's performance, the so-called "progressive" or left wing of the Democratic Party is
becoming a formidable bloc. I expect progressives to be a force to be reckoned with in the coming
years. They will show up strongly in the 2020 primaries and influence the debate. In fact, their
influence is already being seen. And thus this section of my memo.

In a possibly isolated but telling incident, in a Democratic congressional primary last year in Queens,
New York, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez came from the far left to beat Joe Crowley, a ten-term, center/left
congressman. Crowley was #4 in the Democratic leadership in the House of Representatives and
considered a likely eventual successor to Nancy Pelosi as House Speaker. Instead he was ousted by
Ocasio-Cortez: 28 years old at the time and sporting a storybook bio featuring a working-class
upbringing, academic distinction and stints as a bartender and waitress. She had been politically oriented
but had never held elected office. And yet she became the youngest woman ever elected to Congress.
She's been very outspoken since and has attracted disproportionate attention for a freshman legislator.

Ocasio-Cortez, like Sanders, is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America, and she willingly
accepts the label "radical." A New Yorker article titled "Left Wing of the Possible" quotes her as
follows:

 I do think we are in a crisis of late-stage capitalism, where people are working sixty,
 eighty hours a week and they can't feed their families. There is a lot that is economically
 dystopic in this country. So that's why people are open to change. (July 23, 2018)

Julia Salazar, another member of the D.S.A., also ousted a Democratic incumbent last year and won
election to the New York State Senate with the "ardent support of Ocasio-Cortez." The same article
included a statement from her that I found chilling:

 . . . a democratic socialist "recognizes the capitalist system as being inherently
 oppressive, and is actively working to dismantle it and to empower the working class and
 the marginalized in our society."

Does this group genuinely want to abolish capitalism? Thankfully, the same article went on to reflect
some moderate sentiment:

 Michael Kazin, a co-editor of Dissent and a D.S.A. member, [said]: "The radical left's
 major influence in American history is to push liberals, progressives, to the left. And that
 is going to be the impact. I don't believe we are going to have a socialist transformation
 of America in my lifetime."

In July, The New York Times explored the Democratic Socialists' agenda as follows:

 "So what are we talking about here?" the host Stephanie Ruhle asked in an MSNBC
 segment, with background graphics highlighting that democratic socialism is "NOT
 Socialism" and "NOT Communism" but something more like a fondness for Social
 Security and Amtrak. The D.S.A. itself both embraces and rejects such friendly
 definitions, explaining that it "fights for reforms today" but still seeks to overturn "an
 international economic order sustained by private profit, alienated labor" and other forms
 of exploitation. . . .

 When today's leftists talk about socialism, they point to places like Sweden and France
 (home to robust maternity leave and universal health care) or even to lost relics of
 America's recent past (stable jobs, union power, a collective investment in human
 welfare). (July 22, 2018)

Ocasio-Cortez and Salazar may not be indicative of a broad movement, as they hail from New York City,
where a Democratic candidate is a sure thing in a general election and extremism is unlikely to be an
impediment. But some trends among our citizens are very much worth noting. According to the New
Yorker article cited above:

 In 2016, the Institute of Politics, at Harvard's Kennedy School, polled people between the
 ages of eighteen and twenty-nine, and discovered that support for capitalism was
 surprisingly low. Fifty-one percent of the cohort rejected capitalism; thirty-three percent
 supported socialism. A later edition of the survey found that fifty-one percent were
 "fearful about the future," while only twenty percent were hopeful. . . .

 Seventy-eight percent of Americans working full time live paycheck to paycheck; nearly
 half do not have four hundred dollars at the ready. . . .

 . . .while ninety percent of people born in the nineteen-forties outearned their parents -
 the traditional American expectation - this number has fallen to fifty percent for people
 born in the nineteen-eighties. [Of course, they could be too young to have done so yet.]

These are the dystopic trends Ocasio-Cortez cites and the source of the resentment of capitalism that gives
rise to today's populism from the left.

As I see it, for the 60 years immediately following World War II, much of the world enjoyed a rising tide
of prosperity that lifted all boats. That made nearly everyone economically content and thus happy with
capitalism and free-market solutions. Even though some people did better than others, most did quite
well. Living standards rose and the incidence of poverty declined. Ronald Reagan and Margaret
Thatcher celebrated the efficacy of free markets, and the world agreed.

Now the rate of economic progress has receded and current trends are less cheering:

 1. The possibility that economic growth will be slower than that of the post-war period
 2. The negative impact of globalism and automation on specific groups
 3. The increased importance of advanced education or the ownership of capital
 4. As a consequence of numbers 2 and 3 above, increased income inequality

In short, the tide is no longer rising to the same extent, and many fewer people are happy with their
circumstances and outlook. Their unhappiness crystalizes in populism. And it needs a target. Why
not capitalism?

My point here is that, as I said above, I expect the rising influence of the left to impact the 2020 election
cycle. Left-wing Democratic candidates will present challenges to moderates in their party, and the latter
will have to tailor their messages to compete. And it's starting. In particular, I cite two pieces of
proposed legislation that emerged recently from prominent Democrats:

 Senator Elizabeth Warren, already an announced 2020 presidential candidate, has introduced her
 Accountable Capitalism Act. Two of its provisions caught my attention:

 . . . incorporation for large companies would become a federal matter, . . . These
 federally chartered companies would be mandated to consider the interests of a list
 of stakeholders, from investors to employees to customers and communities. These
 groups could then sue if they deemed the company had breached their duties. . . .

 . . . Senator Warren's legislation calls for 40 percent of directors to be elected by
 employees. (The Financial Times, September 24, 2018)

 Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, often mentioned as a presidential hopeful, has introduced
 legislation that I view as related:

 The Worker Dividend Act would mandate that companies buying their own shares
 must also pay out to their own employees a sum equal to the lesser of either the total
 value of the buyback or 50 percent of all profits beyond $250 million. (Vox, January

I absolutely am not writing to defend stock buybacks or criticize labor representation on boards.
What I oppose is (a) the idea of governments deciding how companies will be run and (b) the
appropriation of corporations' economics for parties other than their owners.

What would be the effects of turning over some of businesses' capital to workers, or requiring that they
be put on corporate boards? Clearly, to do the former would be comparable to saying to shareholders,
"That thing you thought you owned - the company - you don't really own that." Stock buybacks are a
way of returning capital to companies' owners. Why should each one be accompanied by giving an
equivalent amount to workers? Wouldn't the next step be to say, "Whenever a company pays a dividend,
it has to distribute an equal amount to its workers"? And wouldn't that be tantamount to saying, "As
for corporate capital, the workers own half"? Consequences? Ask yourself who would start a
corporation in the future if it meant the workers would be entitled to half the gains.

What about requiring that workers be put on boards? To date, it has been the job of a corporation's
directors to represent its shareholders. Requiring that 40% of them be workers would be, in essence,
another way of saying the shareholders aren't in full control. If workers were put on boards, whose
interests would they represent: the corporation and its shareholders, or labor? To whom would they work
to deliver benefits? If an opportunity arose to increase efficiency and profitability by investing in
automation, for example, how would labor's directors be expected to vote?

And that leads to the matter of requiring corporations to serve multiple interests. Today, directors are
legally deemed to have done their jobs if they applied "business judgment" for the benefit of the company
(and thus its shareholders). How would they be expected to simultaneously work for the good of the
company and its owners as well as its workers, customers and communities? Can you imagine the
lawsuits that would fly over the issue of whether too much had gone to one group rather than
another? How could a court decide whether the multiple constituencies had benefitted in the
appropriate proportions?

What I'd like to do is get some of the progressive politicians and the less-capitalist young people in a
room and ask them a simple question: To what do you attribute America's preeminence in the world
over the last hundred years and the generally superior living standards of its people? In short,
what has been behind the United States' progress to the top of the heap?

What's absolutely clear to me is what it's not: that we're superior people, smarter, better, more
virtuous or more deserving. Instead, I think it's our democracy, our freedoms, and our less rigid
social and financial structures. But, extremely importantly, I also think there have been enormous
contributions from capitalism/free enterprise, the free-market system, economic incentives, private
ownership of property, individual economic opportunity, and the very limited involvement of
government in the economy.

Capitalism is an imperfect economic system, because differential performance in the pursuit of economic
success - as well as luck - results in there being (a) some people who are less successful as well as some
who are more and (b) a few who are glaringly successful. Obviously I'm someone who has profited from
capitalism, so my views could be dismissed as hopelessly biased. However, I'm 100% convinced that the
capitalist system has produced the most aggregate gains for our society, exceptional overall progress, and
a better life for most. For me, the best assessment of capitalism is the one Winston Churchill applied to
democracy:

 No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that
 democracy is the worst form of Government except all those other forms that have been
 tried from time to time.

In the same way, I'm convinced that capitalism is the worst economic system . . . except for all the
rest. No other economy has accomplished what the U.S. has, accompanied by extensive personal
freedom, and especially not the ones centrally controlled by government. In particular, no other economy
has produced inventions and innovations - and distributed life-enhancing products - like the U.S. has.

I'm not arguing in favor of unfettered behavior on the part of corporations. They can't be allowed
to use just any tactics to get ahead. They mustn't be permitted to compete unfairly against each other,
behave in anti-social ways, or do damage in pursuit of profit. Thus laws, regulations and active
supervision on the part of diligent directors are needed to police corporate behavior. I also think the
leaders of society should encourage companies to operate with a conscience and voluntarily work for the
betterment of their communities. But this must be done within the framework of the elements that
made America great - not by subverting them.

Also, I feel it's essential that governments create effective safety nets to assist the less-fortunate
members of society who end up at the bottom of the income distribution. Capitalism can make
countries successful through the operation of economic incentives and healthy competition, but I'm
not in favor of unmitigated "dog eat dog" or "survival of the fittest."

Progressives and Democratic Socialists promise increased equality of income and improvement for
people below the top. These are worthy goals, and I support them. But trying to achieve them by
dismantling capitalism would be worse for just about everyone. There is no proof that restrictions on
capitalism and government involvement in economies can promote equality other than by shrinking the
pie. Consider what it would be like if the U.S. didn't have the sanctity of private ownership, the
efficiency of privately run business, and the incentive of personal economic advancement. The hard-
left thinks government can do things better than free markets and increase wellbeing. Which government
agencies would you like to see managing our economic engine?

A lot of the left's economic approach is based on closing the income gap, not just by making things better
for people at the bottom, but also by pulling down people at the top.

 Thus on the TV show 60 Minutes, Ocasio-Cortez expressed fondness for a top federal income tax
 rate of up to 70% on incomes over $10 million. Combined with the top New York State and City
 rates, for example, that would give government 83% of the marginal income of people in the top
 bracket. (That's not terribly far from the suggestion from Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the Communist
 Party's candidate for president of France in 2017, of a 100% tax rate on incomes above €400,000,
 or 20 times France's average wage.)
 Not dissimilarly, in November members of the House considered adjusting its rules to require a
 60% super-majority to increase income taxes on the bottom 80% of Americans, but only a simple
 majority to raise taxes on the top 20%. Is it fair for government to employ different sets of rules
 when deciding how different groups will be taxed?

 On January 24, just under the wire for inclusion in this memo, Elizabeth Warren took the issue of
 differential taxation to its ultimate extreme: a wealth tax. I'll let her words on Twitter speak for
 themselves:

 The rich & powerful run Washington. Here's one benefit they wrote for themselves:
 After making a killing from the economy they've rigged, they don't pay taxes on
 that accumulated wealth. It's a system that's rigged for the top if I ever saw one.

 We need structural change. That's why I'm proposing something brand new - an
 annual tax on the wealth of the richest Americans. I'm calling it the "Ultra-
 Millionaire Tax" & it applies to that tippy top 0.1% - those with a net worth of over

 Any populist appeal to resentment there?

 And what exactly is the benefit that the "rich & powerful . . . wrote for themselves"? That they
 get to keep what they earn net of taxes. Senator Warren omits to mention that under the
 American system, nobody pays tax on accumulated wealth. But she sure makes it sound
 egregious that the rich don't do so. The rich didn't arrange an exemption for themselves; there
 is no wealth tax. But why let facts like those get in the way of political rhetoric?

Over the centuries, one thing that has brought successful democracies to an end has been the
realization on the part of the majority that they can appropriate more for themselves by taxing
those at the top. This is an example of the so-called "tyranny of the majority." As The New York Times
said the other day, albeit in direct reference to Brexit:

 During debates over the American Constitution, James Madison warned in one of the
 essays that became the Federalist Papers that unbridled majoritarianism had made earlier
 democracies "as short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths." Only "a
 republic" of representatives subject to rules and institutions as well as the public, he
 wrote, "promises the cure for which we are seeking."

 . . . as Mr. Madison warned in the Federalist Papers, a democracy imposed "by the
 superior force" of an "overbearing majority" may not always remain democratic.

Does the left understand the long-term consequences of the majority imposing confiscatory taxes on the
rich, and do they really want them? Will reducing the incentive to earn more (or incentivizing successful
Americans to transfer their citizenship to other nations) really result in the betterment of most people?
Americans generally accept the concept of progressive tax rates. But they must not be punitive and
de-motivating. Note in this regard that in 2015, the top 5% of taxpayers (with 37% of all income) paid
60% of all income taxes, and the top 1% (with 21% of income) paid 39%. To the political left: are those
proportions of taxes paid "fair"? And would it still be fair if they were much higher?

(I want to make clear that I believe room does exist for increases in tax rates on the biggest earners since
(a) today's top rate of 37% is one of the lowest in the 106-year history of the U.S. income tax and (b)
dividends and capital gains are taxed at rates that are far lower still. It could be argued that all forms of
income should be taxed the same.)

While there are ways in which the system can be improved, I consider it problematic when people
denounce capitalism without acknowledging its benefits. It's ironic to think of politicians criticizing the
capitalist system via platforms like Twitter and Facebook (accessed on their iPhones); at rallies reached
via airlines and cars (perhaps employing ride-sharing services such as Uber); in meetings over a
Starbucks coffee; and via cable news networks. All of these are innovations that came out of a system
that encourages people to take significant risks to start companies on the premise that they'll reap the
rewards of ownership if their businesses succeed.

I'm sure if they thought about it, the list of innovations these people wouldn't want to live without -
ranging from drugs to consumer products, to services, to technology - would be a long one. Which of
those would we have today if not for the profit motive and the possibility of ending up with accumulated
wealth? And in the absence of those expectations, to whom would we look for the innovations of the
future? How's the record of non-capitalist countries such as the U.S.S.R., Cuba and Venezuela in this
regard?

A great deal of America's economic progress has resulted from people's aspiration to make more
and live better. Take that away and what do we have? The people at the bottom won't have as
many at the top to resent. But without the contributions of those who aim for the top, everyone will
have less to enjoy (see the appendix for an informative parable). This is why I worry about the rise
of negative sentiment toward capitalism and antipathy toward those who succeed under it.

 * * *

Politicians, depending on their ideology, can pose simple questions that suggest simple solutions to the
problems people face, like these:

 Should we impose tariffs on imports to save American jobs?
 Should workers have a say in how companies are run?
 Should we enact rent control laws to protect tenants from rent increases?
 Should the government provide jobs for all?

For many people, it's easy to answer "yes." The benefits from doing these things are obvious. Who
would oppose them?

But it turns out they aren't such easy questions, since economic reality shows them all to have downsides
that just might exceed their upsides:

 Should we impose tariffs on imports in order to save American jobs?
 o Do the potential gains for a limited number of workers warrant the broadly shared
 increase in costs to all consumers?

 Should workers have a say in how companies are run?
 o Will they act in the interests of the companies, society as a whole, or only labor?

 Should we enact rent control laws to protect tenants from rent increases?
 o If rents are regulated, will landlords maintain and expand the stock of rental housing?

 Should the government assure every citizen a job?
 o What incentive will people have to work hard if they're guaranteed employment?

One of the key elements running through economics is its complexity: there are few decisions that face us
that aren't multivariate and that are free of second- and third-order consequences. Thus we shouldn't
take actions - like imposing tariffs - just because they offer potential benefits, without considering
their costs. And we shouldn't condemn things - like capitalism - solely because they're imperfect,
without taking into account their benefits.

Because economics is just about dollars and consumption, the belief is encouraged that it can be
understood intuitively. The truth, however, is that few people are educated regarding economics, and its
complexity and ramifications render it far less easy to understand than many people may believe. Yet,
while this stuff is complicated, we can all benefit by applying some common sense. You don't have to be
an economist to recognize that if you raise the prices of inputs, it increases the cost of goods and reduces
the quantity sold, and if you reduce the rewards for success, you'll get less effort to create value.

The bottom line is that politicians are able to offer simple economic solutions that have considerable
appeal but fail to hold up in real life. Since politics is largely about how costs and benefits are
distributed - rather than about increasing aggregate benefits - politicians' simplistic economic
prescriptions mustn't be swallowed whole.

P.s.: Just prior to publication (I can hardly keep up with the developments in this area!) I received a mass
email from a candidate for New York City's Public Advocate, effectively a "public watchdog," stating the
following:

 . . . we fought for, and won, a $15 minimum wage, though as we all know, $15 just isn't
 enough to support a family in this city. So we need to keep fighting. . . . A $30
 minimum wage, adjusted with inflation, for New York City government workers and
 businesses that employ over 75 New Yorkers would be where we start.

This brings to mind the description Winston Churchill used regarding the folly of a nation trying to tax its
way to prosperity: "like a man standing in a bucket and trying to lift himself up by the handle."

Appendix: The Tax System Explained in Beer

Suppose that every day, ten men go out for beer, and the bill for all ten comes to $100. If they paid their
bill the way we pay our taxes (by taxpayer decile), it would go something like this:

The first four men (the poorest) would pay nothing.
The fifth would pay $1.
The sixth would pay $3.
The seventh would pay $7.
The eighth would pay $12.
The ninth would pay $18.
The tenth man (the richest) would pay $59.

So, that's what they decided to do.

The ten men drank in the bar every day and seemed quite happy with the arrangement, until one day, the
owner threw them a curve ball. "Since you're all such good customers," he said, "I'm going to reduce the
cost of your daily beer by $20." Drinks for the ten men would now cost just $80.

The group still wanted to pay their bill the way we pay our taxes. So the first four men were unaffected.
They would still drink for free. But what about the other six? How could they divide up the $20 windfall
so that everyone would get his fair share?

The bar owner suggested that it would be fair to reduce each man's bill by a higher percentage the poorer
he was, to follow the principle of the tax system they had been using, and he proceeded to suggest the
new lower amounts each should now pay.

And so the fifth man, like the first four, now paid nothing (a 100% saving).
The sixth now paid $2 instead of $3 (a 33% saving).
The seventh now paid $5 instead of $7 (a 29% saving).
The eighth now paid $9 instead of $12 (a 25% saving).
The ninth now paid $14 instead of $18 (a 22% saving).
The tenth now paid $50 instead of $59 (a 15% saving).

The first four continued to drink for free, and the latter six were all better off than before. But, once
outside the bar, the men began to compare their savings.

"I only got a dollar out of the $20 saving," declared the fifth man. He pointed to the tenth man, "But he
got $9!"

"Yeah, that's right," exclaimed the sixth man. "I only saved a dollar, too. It's unfair that he saved nine
times more than me!"

"That's true!" shouted the seventh man. "Why should he get $9 back, when I got only $2? The wealthy
get all the breaks!"

"Wait a minute," yelled the first four men in unison, "we didn't get anything at all. This new tax system

exploits the poor!"

The nine men surrounded the tenth and beat him up.

The next day, the tenth man didn't show up, so the other nine sat down and had their beers without him.
But when it came time to pay the bill, they discovered something important: They didn't have enough
money between all of them for even half of the bill!

And that is how our tax system works. The people who already pay the highest taxes will naturally get
the most benefit from a tax reduction. Tax them too much, attack them for being wealthy, and they
just may not show up anymore. In fact, they might start drinking overseas, where the atmosphere is
friendlier.

 * * *

I've been waiting a long time for a chance to use this. The numbers may not be exactly right, but the idea
is. The unarguable bottom line is that everyone's view of the fairness of the tax system - like most
such matters - depends largely on the angle from which you look at it.

HM


Memo: Growing the Pie.

A few weeks ago, we were pleased to announce a partnership with Brookfield Asset Management
that created an alternative investment manager with one of the broadest slates of strategies and
greatest asset totals. And what question did I get? "Will there still be memos?" Well, here's your
answer.

 * * *

One thing I'm not happy being right about is the tenor of the current debate over our economic
system. Most of my January memo, Political Reality Meets Economic Reality, was devoted to
fretting over the rise of populism from the left and the resulting anti-capitalist sentiment, and it has
risen further since.

I mentioned legislation that had been introduced to appropriate some of corporations' cash and
governance rights for workers, as well as a proposal for a higher income-tax bracket for top earners.
Since then we've seen additional suggestions covering a wealth tax, higher estate taxes and, in New
York City, a tax on pieds-à-terre. Clearly companies and wealthy individuals are being viewed by
some as attractive political targets and good sources of incremental revenue.

One of the main reasons behind populism's ability to stir people is the favorable reception its rhetoric
receives. "They have too much." "We've been short-changed." "The system's rigged." "They got
where they are by cheating." "The rich don't pay their fair share." Sound bites like these find
receptive audiences among people who are unhappy with their lot, whereas detecting the error
in these statements requires an insight, sense of history and understanding of economics that
many people lack.

What's Going On?

In the January memo, I set forth my view that in the last 10-20 years, the rising economic tide had
stopped lifting all boats. In addition, major social and economic trends contributed to increases in
economic inequality. These developments, I said, were largely behind the rise of populism.

Ray Dalio and Bridgewater actually beat my memo by two days, publishing on January 28 an
excellent note titled Populism + Weakening Economy + Limited Central Bank Power to Ease +
Elections = Risky Markets and Risky Economies. I was particularly drawn to the following passage:

 Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to
 increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of

 populism of the left and populism of the right. As a rule, populists of the right
 (who are usually capitalists) don't know how to divide the pie well, while
 populists of the left (who are usually socialists) don't know how to grow the pie.
 [Emphasis added]

Populism of both the right (behind Donald Trump) and the left (behind Bernie Sanders) played a big
part in the 2016 presidential election season. It's the latter that's my subject here.

In my January memo, I argued at length that capitalism can be credited with much of what made the
United States what it is today. In short, to borrow Ray's terminology, the capitalist system
achieved this by creating the biggest pie: the largest total GDP in the world and one of the
highest per-capita GDPs. And only capitalism is likely to cause the pie to continue to grow. The
failure of non-capitalist systems to produce economic growth and prosperity is well documented.

Obviously, however, when the pie is divided up under capitalism, not everyone gets the same-sized
piece. That's the idea underlying the following line in Winston Churchill's speech in the House of
Commons on October 22, 1945:

 The inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings . . .

As with so many things, Churchill said it best. Under capitalism we're likely to see bigger slices of
the pie go, for example, to those who are smarter, more talented and more hardworking, but also to
those who are luckier or born into wealth. The first three of these explanations are generally
considered valid, the fourth is not, and people fight about the last. The gains produced by
capitalism are inseparable from - actually they derive from - the opportunity for those who are
smarter, more talented and more hardworking to end up with bigger slices of the pie. On the
other hand, no one considers it inherently desirable that lucky people do so also. And many think the
benefits of inheritance should at least be watered down (although generally not the benefactors or
beneficiaries).

And what do the "populists of the left" want? For the most part, "fairer" and more equal outcomes.
They say relatively little about expanding the pie but more about fairness in how it's apportioned.
That's why Churchill went on from the above to add:

 . . . The inherent virtue of Socialism is the equal sharing of miseries.

When we look around the world, we see countries that have stressed equal sharing of the pie and
others that have cared more about expanding the pie. The equal sharers include Cuba, North Korea,
Venezuela and the USSR, while the expanders, in addition to the U.S., include South Korea, Hong
Kong and Singapore. In which group of countries do people generally live better? In which group
would you rather live?

Today, many people apparently fail to understand the role of capitalism in creating the wealth that
Americans share. Others may feel the capitalism that got us here may have been fine in its time but
isn't needed anymore; thus, we should shift our attention to more equal distribution instead. And a
last cohort may consider equal sharing more important than the creation of more prosperity.

Socialism superimposes socio-political considerations on an economic system, such that equality is
elevated relative to self-interest and individual motivation. Capitalism omits that emphasis. In this

context, last month Charlie Munger called my attention to China's agricultural history following the
death of Mao Zedong in 1976. The following excerpts are from a 1986 paper in the Journal of
International Affairs regarding the then-recent agricultural reforms in China. This'll be a long slog,
but I think it's worth studying how China transitioned from the "equal sharing of miseries":

 The long-term (1957-1978) growth of cereal output just kept up with the expansion of
 the population. Over this period, China actually was becoming more dependent on
 imported grain to feed its population. . . . By 1978, about 30 million urbanites,
 roughly 40 percent of the population of China's municipalities, were dependent on
 imported cereals. The performance of most non-grain crops was even less
 impressive. . . . The slow growth of farm output, not surprisingly, was accompanied
 by extraordinarily modest growth of peasant income. . . .

 By 1978 an apparent consensus had been reached at the highest levels of the Chinese
 Communist party that the painfully slow growth of agricultural output was caused . . .
 by certain inefficiencies of China's collective production structure, the loss of
 productivity resulting from the promotion of local self-sufficiency, the curtailment of
 rural marketing and the disincentive of relatively low prices for farm products.
 Beginning in 1978 the Central Committee endorsed a series of sweeping reforms that
 addressed each of these problems. Collectivized agriculture . . . was replaced with a
 system of household farming in which the land was divided among existing
 households. . . . Decisions on cropping patterns and the quantities of fertilizers and
 other inputs to be used are now made by each household rather than by team and
 brigade leaders. . . . Peasants are now encouraged to specialize and produce for the
 market rather than being forced to be self-sufficient. Comparative advantage
 cropping has been encouraged by reopening rural markets . . .

 These reforms . . . have led to an unprecedented pace of growth since 1978. Grain
 output, for example, had grown from 305 to 407 million metric tons, an average
 annual rate of almost 5 percent, well over twice the historic rate of 2.1 percent
 achieved between 1957 and 1978. . . .

 The official jettisoning of the policy of local cereals self-reliance, encapsulated in the
 Maoist slogan "Take grain as the key link," and the reopening of rural markets have
 stimulated an upsurge of production of non-cereal crops. . . .

 The unprecedented growth of agricultural output also has been accompanied by
 substantial growth in real farm income. . . . Average per capita farm income in
 current prices rose from 134 yuan in 1978 to 355 yuan in 1984. . . . The gains derive
 not only from the growth of farm output . . . but also from the substantial expansion
 of rural non-farm employment and income. . . .

 Although decollectivization has provided the incentives for improved productivity
 growth, it has created . . . significant and partially unanticipated adverse
 consequences. . . . Over the longer run it is not clear how the local labor-intensive
 maintenance of existing irrigation systems will be sustained. . . . The current system
 appears almost certain to have an adverse effect on the distribution of income in rural
 areas and may lead, ultimately, to significant rural unrest. . . . Another seemingly

 unanticipated consequence of the demise of the collective system is the impaired
 delivery of rural social services. State budgetary funds for rural health-care and
 primary-school education always have been limited. Most of these programs . . . were
 financed by collectively accumulated welfare funds. . . . A final unanticipated
 consequence of the reform is its budgetary impact. While the higher farm quota
 prices the state introduced along with decollectivization have contributed
 significantly to greater incentives and productivity for peasant producers, the
 financial burden to the state of these incentives has mounted far more rapidly than
 expected. [Nicholas R. Lardy, "Agricultural Reforms in China"]

The Chinese experience described above tells the whole story in eight short years: deregulation and
decontrol; free enterprise and the profit motive; increased flexibility and choice; the benefits of
specialization; and the allocation of resources via the free market. The results: vastly increased
production, but also greater inequality and reduced government services. In other words, you can't
have it all. Most people lived much better because of the reforms, whereas under the prior
system everyone had it the same, but most people lived far less well. Which was fairer?

Capitalism doesn't know about or care about fairness in the sense of equal sharing. What it
considers fair is the proposition that people who have greater ability or work harder should be
able to earn more. That potential, it says, provides incentives for hard work and rewards those who
achieve, ultimately resulting in a better life for almost everyone. The story of China - just like that
of America - shows that it works.

A Case in Point: We Like Our Pie the Way It Is

One of the biggest stories in the business world over the last two years was Amazon's search for a
location for another headquarters. A total of 238 cities, towns and other entities submitted proposals,
trumpeting their merits as a possible location for HQ2 and, in many cases, offering financial
inducements.

The big news came last November, when Long Island City in Queens, New York was chosen for
Amazon's expansion, as was Northern Virginia. The parameters in Queens included a $2.5 billion
investment on Amazon's part; approximately 25,000 new Amazon jobs (plus the likelihood of
thousands more in construction, local infrastructure and support businesses); $27 billion of projected
incremental state and city tax revenues over the subsequent 25 years; and $3 billion returned to
Amazon over that period in the form of tax credits and subsidies.

The deal's supporters were elated. But opposition soon began to form, and, on February 14, Amazon
pulled out.

 The plan fell apart in the face of a backlash over public subsidies, resentment of the
 covert process in which the city and the state negotiated the deal, and concern about
 its neighborhood impact. (The New York Times, February 22)

Labor unions that would want to organize Amazon's operation opposed the deal because of
Amazon's policy of resisting unionization (although, unsurprisingly, the bargain was supported by
unions for construction workers and others anticipating expanded work opportunities).

Politics reared its head, of course, especially when the State Senate Majority Leader nominated
Michael Gianaris, who represents Long Island City, to the obscure Public Authorities Control Board,
which had the power to thwart the project. According to the New York Post, Gianaris opposed the
subsidies and was "miffed" at not having been consulted by the mayor and governor when the deal
was negotiated. Some say his nomination, while never effective, was the nail in the deal's coffin.

Finally, populist rhetoric injected resentment into the process, as per an article in The New Yorker
magazine of November 17:

 Richard Florida, the urban-studies theorist, told [writer Anand Giridharadas] that
 Amazon's HQ2 competition "captures the zeitgeist of early 21st century American
 late capitalism." He added, "The very idea that a trillion-dollar company run by the
 world's richest man could run an American Idol auction on more than two hundred
 thirty cities across the United States (and Canada and Mexico) to extract data on sites
 and on incentives, and pick up a handy three billion dollars of taxpayer money in the
 process, is a sad statement of extreme corporate power in our time" . . .

 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the [then-]representative-elect of New York's Fourteenth
 Congressional District, which spans parts of the Bronx and Queens, criticized the
 deal on Twitter. "The idea that [Amazon] will receive hundreds of millions of dollars
 in tax breaks at a time when our subway is crumbling and our communities need
 MORE investment, not less, is extremely concerning to residents here," she wrote . . .

 Reached by telephone on Thursday, Ocasio-Cortez called the Amazon deal "dressed-
 up trickle-down economics." "What we're seeing here is a complete public cost for a
 private corporate benefit," she told me. "When you give a three-billion-dollar tax
 break to the richest company in the world, that means that you're giving up our
 schools. You're giving up our infrastructure. You're giving up our community
 development." In other words, there is an opportunity cost to luring the world's
 richest man by letting him free-ride on the public services that other New Yorkers
 must pay for.

Although the majority of New Yorkers supported the deal in polls, the combined forces in opposition
were sufficient to turn Amazon away. In a statement, the company said:

 For Amazon, the commitment to build a new headquarters requires positive,
 collaborative relationships with state and local elected officials who will be
 supportive over the long term.

That doesn't sound unreasonable.

But Amazon's decision not to go forward was cause for victory celebrations on the left. City
Councilman Jimmy Von Bramer said:

 Even when we were faced with the richest man in the world and the richest company
 in the world, we did not buckle. Amazon doesn't need our $3 billion . . . (New York
 Post, February 15)

And Rep. Ocasio-Cortez tweeted the following:

 Anything is possible: today was the day a group of dedicated, everyday New Yorkers
 & their neighbors defeated Amazon's corporate greed, its worker exploitation, and
 the power of the richest man in the world.

In other words, the response from the "progressive" left was that Amazon could take those jobs
and shove them.

I don't mean to single out Ocasio-Cortez, and I have nothing against her. But she is the most
prominent spokesperson for the approach that so troubles me, and what she says exemplifies that
which I want to resist. Here's what The Washington Post (owned by Amazon's Jeff Bezos) said in a
February 21 article titled "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an economic illiterate - and that's a danger
to America":

 Case in point: Last week, Ocasio-Cortez celebrated the tanking of the deal negotiated
 by her fellow Democrats in which Amazon promised to build a new headquarters in
 Long Island City, New York, right next to her congressional district. Amazon's
 departure cost the city between 25,000 and 40,000 new jobs. Forget the tech workers
 whom Amazon would have employed. Gone are all the unionized construction jobs
 to build the headquarters, as well as thousands of jobs created by all the small
 businesses - restaurants, bodegas, dry cleaners and food carts - that were preparing
 to open or expand to serve Amazon employees. They are devastated by Amazon's
 withdrawal.

 Ocasio-Cortez was not disturbed at all. "We were subsidizing those jobs," she said.
 "Frankly, if we were willing to give away $3 billion for this deal, we could invest
 those $3 billion in our district, ourselves, if we wanted to. We could hire out
 more teachers. We can fix our subways. We can put a lot of people to work for
 that amount of money if we wanted to." [Emphasis added]

She entirely misses the point. There was no $3 billion sitting in a city bank account, waiting to
be spent on either subsidies for Amazon or enhanced services for New Yorkers. The $3 billion
going to Amazon wouldn't have represented a diversion of resources from other potential uses.
It consisted entirely of contingent future payments: the part that would be kicked back to Amazon
from the taxes it would pay, the balance of which could be used to support infrastructure or services.
No Amazon, no $3 billion paid out (and no $24 billion of net taxes received by the city and state).
Ocasio-Cortez either (a) completely misunderstood the deal she was criticizing or (b) overlooked the
facts in favor of rhetoric calculated to play on resentment and scare up votes. Which explanation
would you consider preferable?

A lot of readers enjoyed the story in my January memo about the ten men who drank beer in a bar
every night, with each paying according to his ability. (It was included as an appendix. Nancy
missed it the first time through; I hope you didn't.) When the grateful bar owner took 20% off their
collective tab, the ten disagreed over how the reduction should be divided up, since most of it
appeared likely to go to the richest man (who'd been paying most of the bill). In their anger, the
other nine men beat up the tenth. He didn't come back after that, leaving the nine unable to afford
their daily beer. They sure showed him!

And likewise, New York showed Amazon! They beat Amazon up, and it's not coming back. If
you look back at the politicians' statements above, you'll see they're all about resentment of
Amazon's (and Bezos's) wealth and how unwarranted the subsidies were. But there was no mention
of the lost potential jobs or what's good for New York's economy or, more importantly, for its
people. New York had a great chance to expand the pie, and the populists of the left found a way to
scuttle it.

Another example of channeling resentment toward the rich is the pied-à-terre tax that's been
proposed in New York City. The tax was inspired by a money manager's purchase of a $238 million
apartment as a second (or possibly third) home. It would impose a levy on houses and apartments
worth more than $5 million that aren't primary residences, on the grounds that the owners benefit
from their homes' New York location without paying New York income tax. But is it smart?

Absentee owners pay real estate tax even though they use few city services. And when they come to
town, their spending contributes to the economy. Do they really abuse the city? And the new tax
would exacerbate the current glut of high-end homes by turning away some of the potential
purchasers for whom they were built. The New York Times (March 24) says ". . . the tax is one small
way to make New York City a little fairer." It also mentions the political palatability of a tax on
wealthy absentee owners. But given that the obvious effect will be to depress the market for homes
and diminish employment in a broad range of related industries, does it make economic sense?

The rhetoric of the far left plays on resentments and differences, and it's easily swallowed. But
the policies are more likely to equalize the sharing of misery than to expand blessings, however
unequal.

 * * *

About 50 years ago, an older friend described for me what he felt made America great:

 When the worker in Britain sees the boss drive out of the factory in his Rolls Royce,
 he says, "I'd like to put a bomb under that car." But when the worker in the U.S. sees
 the boss drive out of the factory in his Cadillac, he says, "Someday I'll own a car like
 that."

Today, too few Americans feel they might own that Cadillac. Taken to the logical extreme, that has
the potential to bring the American miracle to an end. Thus, business should do all it can to arrest
the trend toward stagnant and unequal incomes . . . not just to be fair or generous, but to
assure perpetuation of the system that got us here.

Capitalism is the most dependable route to prosperity. And it has to be responsible capitalism. The
solution can't lie in turning away the Amazons of the world, imposing extra taxes on Cadillacs
or otherwise shrinking the pie.


Memo: This Time It’s Different.

I first came across the title of this memo in an article titled "Why This Market Cycle Isn't Different"
by Anise C. Wallace in The New York Times of October 11, 1987. It went as follows:

 The four most dangerous words in investing are "this time it's different," according
 to John Templeton, the highly regarded 74-year-old mutual fund manager. At stock
 market tops and bottoms, investors invariably use this rationale to justify their
 emotion-driven decisions.

 Over the next year, many investors are likely to repeat these four words as they
 defend higher stock prices. But they should treat them with the same consideration
 they give "the check is in the mail. . . ."

 Nevertheless, in the bull market's sixth year, the "this time it's different" chorus is
 beginning to be heard. Wall Street professionals predict that, before the bull market
 ends, individual investors, who have mostly stayed on the sidelines, will be swept
 along in the mania characterizing a market peak.

 They will invest in stocks despite the fact that the Dow Jones Industrial average has
 more than tripled in the last five years. They will be hearing overwhelmingly
 compelling reasons why stock prices should go higher, why the bull market should
 last considerably longer than any other in history, why this boom will not be followed
 by a 1929-like crash and why "this time it's different."

 Many of these arguments will be tempting because they will have some element of
 truth to them. Even Mr. Templeton concedes that when people say things are
 different, 20 percent of the time they are right. But the danger lies in thinking that the
 different factor - like the recent investment in United States stocks by the Japanese -
 will be uninterrupted.

Wallace's essential message is that investors must take heed when the four words are in
widespread use. Why? Look back at the paragraph introducing the above quote: when you first
read it, did you happen to notice the date of publication? It was just eight days before Black
Monday (October 19, 1987), the worst day in stock market history. We know how bad it feels
when the market falls 20% in a year. Try 22% in a day!! Wallace's warning was particularly
important at the time the article was published, but for me it's always important.

 * * *

Typically in investing, historical norms put limits on asset prices. Thus, for example, bull markets
can generally go to extremes only if investors discard the notion that the p/e ratio on the S&P 500
stock index shouldn't go much above its post-World War II average of 15 or 16. If the earnings of
the S&P's underlying companies grow at 10% a year, by definition the index can rise 20% a year (as
it did in the 1990s) only if the ratio of price to earnings is viewed as highly expandable. It was such a
perspective that allowed the index to reach 32 times earnings at the start of this century (with highly
negative implications for equity returns in 2000-02).

Think of a rocket launched from Cape Canaveral. Gravity has to be overcome in order for it
to escape the earth's atmosphere. Likewise, the limitations imposed by past norms have to be
overcome in order for asset prices to slip their historic moorings and blast off into outer space.

Today we're not hearing much about historic valuations being irrelevant, as they're not terribly high.
Instead, what we're told is different this time is the relevance of restrictions on future economic
and market performance:

 There doesn't have to be a recession.
 Continuous quantitative easing can lead to permanent prosperity.
 Federal deficits can grow substantially larger without becoming problematic.
 National debt isn't worrisome.
 We can have economic strength without inflation.
 Interest rates can remain "lower for longer."
 The inverted yield curve needn't have negative implications.
 Companies and stocks can thrive even in the absence of profits.
 Growth investing can continue to outperform value investing in perpetuity.

I rarely participate in a meeting these days without someone asking about one or more of these
propositions. The bottom line is that for any of the nine to be true, things really have to be
different this time. I'll discuss the outlook for each below.

The avoidable recession - The questions I get most often these days are "Is the U.S. heading for a
recession?" and "When will it start?" My answer to the first is a simple "yes." (At least I can never
be proved wrong.) We've always had economic cycles, and I believe we always will. Eventually,
favorable developments will lead people to engage in behavior premised on excessively optimistic
assumptions, and eventually the over-optimism of those assumptions will be exposed and the
excesses will correct in a period of negative growth. Moreover, even economies that aren't marked
by excesses are subject to exogenous shocks.

When people ask about the coming recession, what they mostly mean is "Might it be a long way
off?" Well, the longest U.S. recovery on record lasted ten years, and the current one is in the twelfth
month of its tenth year. There's no reason a recovery can't go beyond ten years; no gate will come
down on June 30, foreclosing further progress. And it's important to note that since this has been the
most sluggish U.S. recovery since World War II, it hasn't been characterized by excesses to the
upside, meaning there needn't be a recessionary correction on the usual schedule.

Very soon, the current recovery is bound to become the longest in U.S. history. However, I believe
the odds are that it's closer to the end than the beginning. (We never know for sure what's going to
happen in the future. At best we can think in terms of the probabilities. That's the thinking behind
my latest book's subtitle: Getting the Odds on Your Side.) The recovery is likely to go on longer, but
perhaps not much longer. Still, I wouldn't place a wager on when it will end.

About a year and a half ago, following the enactment of President Trump's stimulative tax cuts,
people started to ask me whether the U.S. might emulate Australia, whose last recession was in 1990.
While not quite the same as asking "might there never be another recession?" the idea of 28 years
between recessions would represent a radical difference this time.

My answer to the above question is "probably not," since there are significant differences between
the two countries that probably render Australia's example inapplicable to the U.S.:

 A much bigger part of Australia's GDP is based on exporting natural resources such as iron
 ore and coal, of which it has so much. Thus in recent decades it has drafted off the unusually
 strong growth of its much larger neighbor to the north, China.
 In addition, ". . . having a conservative, domestically focused, highly concentrated banking
 system meant that Australia wasn't stuck importing other countries' financial contagions
 when crises hit." (The New York Times, April 7, 2019)
 In fact, I see in Australia a conservatism and discipline capable of extending financial good
 times without creating excesses. My favorite example is the Australia Future Fund, which
 the government formed in 2006 to deal with the country's pension liabilities, with funding
 that came from fiscal surpluses (!) and the privatization of Telstra, the formerly state-owned
 telecommunications company. The fund's assets, now standing at A$154 billion, were
 essentially put into a lockbox until 2020, which now appears likely to extend until at least
 2026. What's the likelihood that U.S. politicians would (a) fund government pension
 obligations up front, rather than deal with them on a pay-as-you-go basis, and (b) keep their
 hands off the assets for 20 years, rather than use them to pay for constituent-pleasing
 spending increases or tax cuts?

So no, I don't think the U.S. is about to emulate Australia's 28-years-and-counting recovery. That I
will bet on.

Perpetual prosperity from quantitative easing - In the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis, the
Fed engaged in quantitative easing, a program of purchasing bonds in the open market. The effect of
the Fed's purchases was to (a) inject bank reserves into the financial system, (b) strengthen the
demand for bonds, thereby bringing down long-term interest rates (which are unaffected by the Fed's
normal open market operations related to short-term rates), and (c) with prospective returns on high-
quality bonds brought down, reignite risk-bearing on the part of investors seeking higher returns,
thereby causing the credit window to reopen. QE was a success in the U.S., and the economy
recovered. Thus some people are now proposing that the Fed could engage in QE forever, with
similarly positive results.

First, I think some part of the impact of QE may be psychological. In other words, QE stimulates the
economy in part because people accept that QE is stimulative. If the Fed took exactly the same
actions but did so without making an announcement, would the effect be the same? (I believe there's

a self-fulfilling, placebo-like component to many of the Fed's tactics.) In this regard, I think its first
round of QE was more effective than its second, and its second round was more effective than its
third. Accordingly, there could be a diminishing return from permanent QE, as the psychological
effect abates.

And who knows exactly how QE works? Last week, at a conference I attended, a participant
suggested that under Modern Monetary Theory (see more below), the Treasury could issue a
potentially unlimited amount of debt, and if third-party buyers failed to take it up, the Fed could buy
it under QE. Does this seem reasonable? If the Fed credits banks with reserves, the banks lend a
multiple of those reserves, and the borrowers use the loan proceeds to make purchases or
investments, does the process really inject money into the economy, or is it mostly a matter of
bookkeeping? Or are they one and the same? Of course, this question is relevant to all nations with
fiat currencies.

Quantitative easing is generally considered to have contributed to the past decade's low prospective
investment returns, resultant risk-taking, asset inflation, and increasing wealth divide. As with any
other prescription, shouldn't we worry about possible side effects like these?

Can government actions permanently raise the level of demand in an economy, or do they mostly
accelerate future demand into the present? If the latter, can QE elevate GDP forever above what it
otherwise would have been? I doubt it. But if it could, wouldn't that eventually cause what I call an
"excess," leading to a recession?

Finally, when I hear people talk about the possibility that the Fed will prevent a recession, I
wonder whether it's even desirable for it to have that goal. Per the above, are recessions really
avoidable or merely postponable? And if the latter, is it better for them to occur naturally or be
postponed unnaturally? Might efforts to postpone them create undue faith in the power and
intentions of the Fed, and thus a return of moral hazard? And if the Fed wards off a series of
little recessions, mightn't that just mean that, when the ability to keep doing so reaches its
limit, the one that finally arrives will be a doozy?

Benign federal deficits - Over the years, some in government have pursued balanced federal budgets,
or at least have paid them lip service. Democrats have generally been described as wanting to "tax
and spend" in order to do more for citizens. But they've sometimes spent before they've taxed.
Republicans, on the other hand, have positioned themselves as the party of fiscal restraint. It's often
been their official position that there could be no increases in spending if not accompanied by
corresponding increases in funding.

Regardless of the debate, federal budgets are rarely tendered on time or in balance these days. We've
had deficits in 46 of the last 50 years (with the exception of 1998-2001), and in recent years they've
risen as a percentage of GDP despite the prosperity we've been enjoying. Often there isn't even a
pretense of interest in fighting deficits. Democrats have big spending ideas even in the absence of
ways to fund them. And Republicans cut taxes but not always spending.

Both parties now seem to feel that the way to win elections is to simply ignore deficits. In the
1930s, John Maynard Keynes said that in periods when private economic activity isn't generating
enough demand to create full employment, governments should spend more than they take in,

counting on deficit spending to stimulate demand. And then, during the resulting periods of growth,
they should spend less than they take in, using the surplus to pay down the debt that was taken on to
fund deficits. But departing from this, at the end of 2017, in the ninth year of a recovery, the
Republicans enacted sweeping tax-rate cuts capable of ballooning the deficit.

A new entrant in this area is receiving a lot of attention: Modern Monetary Theory ("MMT"). One of
its components is the belief that government deficits currently are too small, and in any event not a
bad thing:

 Tax revenues are not what finance the government's expenditures, argues Stephanie
 Kelton, an economist at Stony Brook University and one of the most influential
 modern monetary theorists. What actually happens in a country that controls its own
 currency, she says, is that the government first decides what it's going to spend. In
 the United States, Congress agrees on a budget. Then government agencies start
 handing out dollars to the public to pay for those tanks, earth movers and salaries.
 Afterward, it takes a portion back in the form of taxes. If the government takes back
 less than it gave out, there will be a deficit. . . .

 Ms. Kelton . . . points out that every dollar the government spends translates into a
 dollar of income for someone else. So a deficit in the public sector simultaneously
 produces a surplus outside the government. . . . (The New York Times, April 7, 2019)

Thus, according to MMT, deficits are benign - not a sign of profligacy - and merely an
indication that the government has put more money into the economy than it has taken out in
taxes. MMT is modern in that it has moved past the old-fashioned concept of balancing spending
and revenues, opening the door for bigger deficits.

Does Ms. Kelton think deficits don't matter? No, the Times article goes on:

 Of course they matter, she said. . . . They can be too big, especially if they are not
 used to increase the nation's productive capacity, or if there is a shortage of labor,
 raw materials and factories.

In this connection, we should note that Ms. Kelton served as an economic adviser to Bernie Sanders
in 2016. Thus it may be reasonable to suspect that MMT is largely a rationale for governments to
give away more free stuff, expanding their deficits. Sometimes it can be hard to separate
economic opinions from political leanings.

This relaxed view of deficits reminds me of a hypothetical consumer who has a credit card with no
credit limit. He can spend whatever he wants without having to worry about paying off the balance.
In theory, this could work (although it's challenging to figure out what's in it for the card issuer).
But at a minimum it doesn't allow for unforeseen developments. I believe here, as elsewhere, the
workings of economics are too uncertain for a perpetual motion machine like MMT to be relied
upon. In other words, Modern Monetary Theory is just that: a theory. What if it's wrong?

 . . . when the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business asked top scholars
 about a couple of [MMT's] claims, they split between the 28 percent who disagreed
 and the 72 percent who strongly disagreed. (ibid.)

Disregarded national debt - I recall a heated debate when I was young over whether it's okay for
nations to permanently be in debt. More recently, any such doubt has been forgotten, and almost all
nations are debtors. The main issue became whether there can be a level of debt that's too high. But
now, thanks to MMT, there's a belief that there's no such thing.

Continuing from the Times's description of Modern Monetary Theory:

 "The national debt is nothing more than a historical record of all of the dollars that
 were spent into the economy and not taxed back, and are currently being saved in the
 form of Treasury securities," Ms. Kelton said.

In other words, national debt is just a sign of all the government has accomplished.

While I can't prove that Modern Monetary Theory is off the beam, I also can't see making it the
economic law of the land. Does it have a weakness? I think there may be one hidden in the middle
of the long quote above, regarding "a country that controls its own currency." I don't know
exactly what Ms. Kelton meant by this phrase, but it might be a reference to a country that can print
as much money as it wants without having to worry about its currency depreciating, and thus one that
is always able to issue and refinance debt without limits.

Today the U.S. dollar is the world's reserve currency, and there aren't any obvious candidates to
replace it. Further, the U.S. benefits from an unlimited appetite for its debt, since it's the safest of
any major sovereign. For these reasons, expanding the national debt isn't a problem. And like the
cardholder described above, since there's no limit to its credit, the U.S. can add the interest that
accrues to the unpaid balance.

What happens if these conditions change? Could a tipping point be reached at which there's so
much debt that people question the U.S.'s creditworthiness and ability to repay its borrowings?
In that case, the demanded interest rate would rise, meaning the debt and interest mightn't be
repayable without massive money printing that would result in debasement of the dollar. Thus, could
there come a day when it takes unacceptably more purchasing power to pay off U.S. debt
denominated in dollars that have depreciated?

I put these questions to my friend Randy Kroszner, former member of the Fed's Board of Governors
and Deputy Dean at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business. Here's his response:

 I think the last three decades for Japan and the last decade for the U.S. have shown
 (and continue to be showing) that countries with credible institutions can "get away
 with" higher debt levels without a raid by bond vigilantes than most had once
 thought. That said, it leaves the country vulnerable to a change in sentiment, exactly
 as you describe. "Getting away with it" for too long erodes the credibility of the
 institutions over time.

Again, MMT might work, and vastly expanded national debt might prove viable or even
advantageous. But I wouldn't bet the ranch on it.

Economic strength without inflation - For the last 60 years, there has been widespread (albeit not
universal) acceptance of the so-called Phillips curve, which posits an inverse relationship between
the rate of unemployment and the rate of inflation. In other words, as unemployment falls and the
labor market tightens, workers gain bargaining power and employers have to compete for a declining
number of available workers. This results in rising wages, which translates into increasing inflation.

The U.S. has seen unusually little unemployment during the Trump presidency, and today it's at a
50-year low. Nevertheless, there hasn't been much wage inflation until very recently, and there still
isn't much general inflation.

There are reasons why the relationship underlying the Phillips curve as defined above might be
different from what it was in the past:

 Since the U.S. labor force participation rate (percentage of adults who are either employed or
 looking for work) is at its lowest level in more than 40 years, it might be more meaningful to
 look at the non-employment rate (the percentage of adults who aren't working) rather than
 the unemployment rate (the percentage of adults looking for work who aren't working). By
 the former measure, the labor market isn't so tight.
 Inflation might be structurally lower now and in the future than it was in the past, altering its
 relationship to conditions in the labor market. Automation, the shift of manufacturing to low-
 cost countries and the prevalence of free/cheap stuff in the digital age might help explain
 today's unusually low rate of inflation. For examples of the third of these, think about recent
 trends in the price of photographs, cellphone calls, messages (texts and emails versus
 telegrams and faxes) and books.
 On the other hand, the cheapening of things like those listed just above could halt, and a more
 traditional relationship between inflation and unemployment could resume.

Excessive inflation creates a number of serious economic and social problems, typically requiring
central banks to raise interest rates to cool it off, with the effect of dampening economic growth and
job creation. Likewise, rising inflation can cause investors to demand higher interest rates on bonds
and loans to compensate for the risk of losing purchasing power. This can make it harder for
borrowers to service their debt, causing defaults to rise and discouraging investors from taking risk
and providing financing. (On the other hand, there's a level of inflation that's desired such that,
among other things, workers will see wage growth, and the U.S. can repay outstanding debt with
dollars representing a reduced amount of purchasing power. Today that desired rate is about 2%, and
policymakers worry about the fact that it hasn't materialized despite the low unemployment rate.)

Rising inflation could be seen as a potential contributor to the end of the recovery. So far it hasn't
shown up despite the tightness of the labor market. Has the Phillips curve relationship been revoked
for good, or is inflation in the offing? Who knows?

The word I use to describe inflation is "mysterious." It's rarely clear how it gets started, and in
the 1970s and early '80s, when it reached the mid-teens in the U.S., no one could figure out how to
stop it until after Paul Volcker became Fed chair. It's mysterious why there's so little inflation
today, and whether there'll be inflation in the future. But I'm not confident that it'll still be below
2% a few years from now.

Persistently low interest rates - "Lower for longer" has been another rallying cry of the bull market.
If interest rates remain low, economic growth is encouraged, defaults are scarce, risk-taking is
encouraged and financing is easy. So far - against the odds - the strength of the U.S. economy
hasn't caused interest rates to rise.

The Fed has raised interest rates nine times since the end of 2015, taking the short-term fed funds rate
from roughly zero to 21⁄4-21⁄2%, and in late 2018 it said it would go further. But in January, in
response to fears of economic weakness that arose in 4Q2018, the Fed reversed course and declared
that there would be no more increases for now. Whereas the yield on the 10-year Treasury note
hitting 31⁄4% early last October coincided with (and probably contributed to) the start of the stock
market's fourth-quarter swoon, the promise of low rates has played a big part in the rally this year.

In mid-2007, in a real economy that felt to me a lot like this one, the fed funds rate and the yield on
the 10-year Treasury note both were around 51⁄4%. Today, with the fed funds rate and 10-year
Treasury yield below 21⁄2% instead, the Fed describes interest rates as "neutral": neither low enough
to be stimulative nor high enough to be restrictive. (I considered the 2007 rates to be neutral - how
can that be true of rates at both levels?)

Will the Fed leave rates low? Can it do so if inflation strengthens? Will it leave rates so low
that there's little room to reduce them in the future should stimulus be needed? If deficits and
debt grow faster than GDP, won't that put upward pressure on interest rates? Or if the Fed
cuts rates, as many people now consider likely, will the markets be cheered by the stimulus, or
will they fall in response to the economic concerns at which the rate cuts are directed?
Certainly no one can say.

Equanimity regarding the inverted yield curve - Something else we've heard a lot about over the last
couple of years is how risky it is when the yield curve inverts.

The yield curve is usually upward-sloping, meaning lenders demand higher interest rates when they
lend for longer periods as compensation for the increased uncertainty (especially with regard to
possible declines in the purchasing power of the currency between the time the loan is made and
when it's repaid). But sometimes, long-term rates fall below short-term rates, and the curve is said to
be "inverted." The curve has been unusually flat in recent months, and today it's actually inverted.

Because most periods of inversion have been associated with recessions, the condition is considered
worrisome. In that regard, the Financial Times noted on June 1 that "the [yield curve] has 'inverted'
before every US recession in 50 years." (Note, however, that this is different from saying every
inversion has been followed by a recession.) What people should be focusing on isn't the usual
coincidence of inversions and recessions, but rather the reason for this particular inversion.
Understanding the latter might allow observers to sense whether a recession is implied and avoid a
"false positive."

The explanation for inversions isn't always clear, since interest rates (like inflation) can be
mysterious. Today I would say the inversion of the curve may be due to the fact that the Fed has
brought short rates up at the same time that (a) there's a surplus of capital for investment at the long
end of the yield curve, putting downward pressure on rates there, and (b) there's less reliance on

capital investment in the information age, so less demand for long-term debt capital. One more thing
that may be bringing down long-term yields is an increase in general worry among investors, and
thus a flight to the safety of Treasurys. When demand for bonds rises, sellers are able to require
buyers to pay higher prices, which translate into lower yields.

I don't fully understand why an inverted yield curve should be a negative, but its fans swear that it is.
I merely can't prove that it's not. One possible ramification is the threat to bank profitability: an
inverted yield curve takes away banks' ability to make money simply by borrowing short to lend
long.

Profitless success - Historically, companies have been considered valuable primarily because they
produce profits - if not immediately, then at least they were expected to do so in the foreseeable
future. Then the view arose in the tech-media-telecom bubble of the late 1990s that companies could
be great (and valuable) even in the absence of profits for years to come. Today, profitless companies
are back in vogue and sometimes valued in the tens of billions of dollars.

Tech and venture investors have made a lot of money over the last ten years. Thus there's great
interest in tech companies (including ones like Uber and Lyft that are applying technology to enable
new business models) and willingness to pay high prices today for the possibility of profits far down
the road. There's nothing wrong with this, as long as the possibility is real, not over-rated and
not over-priced. The issue for me is that in a period when profitless-ness isn't an impediment to
investor affection - when projected tech-company profitability commencing years from now is
valued as highly as, or higher than, the current profits of more mundane firms - investing in these
companies can be a big mistake.

Today there are a lot of investors who weren't around to see the 2000 bursting of the TMT bubble, in
which large numbers of Internet and e-commerce companies were given the benefit of the doubt,
only to end up worthless. Venture capital funds showed triple-digit annual returns in the late 1990s,
but the ones started around 2000 performed very poorly (and people began to ask me if venture
capital was a legitimate asset class).

Today, some tech and venture investments have again produced great results, and the doubts seem to
be gone. In investing, however, the truth usually lies somewhere between the extremes of
infinite value and worthlessness. Investor sentiment seems to be closer to the positive end of the
pendulum's arc these days, but it's unlikely to stay there in perpetuity.

Growth investing preeminence forever - Since future-oriented "growth investing" has been so
successful for so long, and has so seriously trounced "value investing," people are asking me whether
this will ever end. In particular, value investing is being likened to the out-of-favor "cigar-butt"
school of investing, in which people buy assets regardless of their quality just because they're low-
priced. Critics of value investing argue that, since the technological leadership that's often
associated with growth stocks is so essential for success in today's world, old-economy companies
lacking it are unlikely to be top performers in the future.

My answer is simple: low price is very different from good value, and those who pursue low price
above all else can easily fall into "value traps." And certainly it's true that old-economy companies

are less likely to be the fast growers of the future or benefit as much from the "moats" that protected
them in the past.

It may also be true that given the ease today of searching the universe of securities, it may be harder
than it used to be to find "value" companies with current assets or earning power that are broadly
unrecognized and thus underpriced. Since the best returns come from buying things whose merits
others aren't aware of, it's certainly possible that easy, widespread access to data is making it harder
for value investors to excel.

On the other hand, companies that do have better technology, better earnings prospects and
the ability to be disrupters rather than disrupted still aren't worth infinity. Thus it's possible
for them to become overpriced and dangerous as investments, even as they succeed as
businesses (this was often the case with the Nifty-Fifty in 1968-73). And I continue to believe
that eventually, after the modern winners have been lauded (and bid up) to excess, there will
come a time when companies lacking the same advantages will be so relatively cheap that they
can represent better investments (see value versus growth in 2000-02).

Understandably, the stocks of companies with bright futures are likely to be outperformers in times
of economic growth and optimism, when investors are happy to pay up for potential. But stocks of
companies with tangible value in the here-and-now are likely to hold up better in less positive times
because (a) they've previously been disrespected and valued lower and (b) the rationale underlying
their prices is less a matter of conjecture and faith. Thus a swing in favor of value may have to await
a period in which the "champions" lose some of their luster, perhaps in a market correction (see
4Q2018). But it'll come.

 * * *

What do all the theories propounded above have in common? That's easy: they're optimistic.
Each one provides an explanation of why things should go well in the future, in ways that
didn't always go well in the past.

In recent years, the U.S. has simultaneously experienced economic growth, low inflation, expanding
deficits and debt, low interest rates and rising financial markets. It's important to recognize that
these things are essentially incompatible. They generally haven't co-existed historically, and
it's not prudent to assume they will do so in the future.

Many of the beliefs discussed above suggest we're in a so-called "Goldilocks" environment: one
that's not too hot and not too cold.

 Economic growth won't be so strong that it brings on excessively high inflation, or so weak
 that it ends in recession.
 Inflation won't be so low that the economy stagnates, or so high that it leads to burdensome
 increases in the cost of living and requires contractionary interest-rate increases to cool it off.

I've seen times in the past when people believed such an ideal state would continue in perpetuity, but
it has never worked out that way. Maybe it will this time - no one can prove it won't until it doesn't

- but certainly broad acceptance of such a proposition indicates that optimism prevails in the current
investment environment.

We keep an eye out for the widespread belief that "this time it's different" because we want to know
if markets are being lifted by bullishness, optimism, risk tolerance and low levels of skepticism.
Everything else being equal, these things result in asset prices that are high relative to intrinsic
values, and their presence exposes us to the risk that they'll abate, taking asset prices down
with them.

In On the Couch (February 2016) I said:

 That's one of the crazy things: in the real world, things generally fluctuate
 between "pretty good" and "not so hot." But in the world of investing,
 perception often swings from "flawless" to "hopeless." The pendulum careens
 from one extreme to the other, spending almost no time at "the happy medium" and
 rather little in the range of reasonableness.

Widespread attaching of "the four words" to bullish propositions suggests that the
environment is being perceived as flawless. When and if that swings to hopeless, the result is
pain for investors.

Of course, no one can prove that the nine propositions discussed above won't hold. Economics and
markets aren't governed by immutable laws like the physical sciences, and there's no schematic
diagram that shows how they work. Thus, I want as usual to make it explicit that these are the
musings of someone who (a) isn't an economist and (b) doesn't claim to know exactly how economic
and monetary mechanisms function. But who does?

Now, sometimes things really are different, as Templeton said. (And in areas like technology and
digital business models, I'd bet things will be different more than the 20% of the time Templeton
cited.) Certainly the world today is very different from that of the past. As I've written before, 40
years ago it felt like the world was a stable place that was subject only to limited change in areas like
scientific progress, fads and politics. Today the idea of an unchanging world is out the window:
things change every minute, and anyone who doesn't keep up with the changes is fated to miss out.
Technological prowess can be essential for success, and every company or industry that lacks it is
susceptible to being disrupted by those who possess it.

I readily admit that, at my stage in life, I may not fully grasp the forces that will determine the future.
At times like this, when tech stocks are in the middle of a great run, I'm reminded of a classic book
from my youth, The Money Game (1967). In it, the pseudonymous Adam Smith introduced the Great
Winfield, a veteran broker who, despite the limitations associated with having reached middle age,
was minting money in the new tech stocks. When asked about the source of his success, he
introduced Smith to his traders:

 "My boy," said the Great Winfield over the phone, "Our trouble is that we are too
 old for this market. The best players in this kind of a market have not passed their
 twenty-ninth birthdays."

 . . . "My solution to the current market," the Great Winfield said. "Kids. This is a
 kids' market. This is Billy the Kid, Johnny the Kid, and Sheldon the Kid."

 . . . "See? See?" said the Great Winfield. "The flow of the seasons! Life begins
 again! It's marvelous! It's like having a son! My boys! My kids!"

Of course, veteran that he was, the Great Winfield knew the truth. Thus he went on:

 . . . "The strength of my kids is that they are too young to remember anything
 bad, and they are making so much money they feel invincible," said the Great
 Winfield. "Now you know and I know that one day the orchestra will stop
 playing and the wind will rattle through the broken window panes . . ."
 [Emphasis added]

To close, I'll return to a concept I consider indispensable for anyone hoping to succeed at investing -
the three stages of a bull market:

 the first, when only a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 the third, when everyone concludes that things can only get better forever.

Clearly the few who buy in the first stage - when optimism is scarce and thus asset prices are low -
can access great bargains. But those who buy in the last stage - out of a belief that the news will
always be good - can be making a big mistake. The nine propositions reviewed above all
represent variations on "things can only get better forever." If they're the ideas guiding
investors today, that should be considered worrisome.

The best investments often are made in times of fear and desperation. That's rarely possible when
investors are willing to blithely dismiss the limitations of the past with the words "this time it's
different." I would remind those investors of a quote usually attributed to Mark Twain: "History
doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme." Of course it's important that investors keep up with
current developments and those that will shape the future. But it's also essential that they not
completely unlearn the lessons of the past.


Memo: On the Other Hand.

It often happens that just as I'm about to release a memo, I come across something that absolutely
has to be incorporated. That was the case on June 12, the day "This Time It's Different" was
published. I was reading a first-quarter report from Ruffer, a London-based money manager, and I
came across the following question:

 Can the Fed, with its discretions and its firepower, keep a market dislocation at bay,
 or halt it once it has begun?

That question caused me to think back to remarks made a few days earlier by Federal Reserve
Chairman Jerome Powell regarding how the Fed would deal with the possibility of a trade war and its
potential ramifications:

 We are closely monitoring the implications of these developments for the U.S. economic
 outlook and, as always, we will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a strong
 labor market and inflation near our symmetric 2% objective. (CNBC, June 4)

Together, these two inputs prompted me to reflect on the role and powers of the Fed. In short, is it
the Fed's job to sustain expansions and keep market dislocations at bay ad infinitum? I
concluded that "This Time It's Different" shouldn't ignore this subject and, as a result, reworked the
end of its section on quantitative easing, adding a new final paragraph:

 Can government actions permanently raise the level of demand in an economy, or do
 they mostly accelerate future demand into the present? If the latter, can QE elevate
 GDP forever above what it otherwise would have been? I doubt it. But if it could,
 wouldn't that eventually cause what I call an "excess," leading to a recession?

 Finally, when I hear people talk about the possibility that the Fed will prevent a
 recession, I wonder whether it's even desirable for it to have that goal. Per the
 above, are recessions really avoidable or merely postponable? And if the latter, is it
 better for them to occur naturally or be postponed unnaturally? Might efforts to
 postpone them create undue faith in the power and intentions of the Fed, and
 thus a return of moral hazard? And if the Fed wards off a series of little
 recessions, mightn't that just mean that, when the ability to keep doing so
 reaches its limit, the one that finally arrives will be a doozy?

I'm so glad these last-minute inspirations caused me to include the above. I think the topic is very
important, so much so that I'm now going to devote a memo to the subject of Fed interest-rate
management.

What Do Fed Actions Tell Us?

Many people look at the operation of an economy and the efforts of a central bank to influence it and
see things that are logical and straightforward. Others see a complex ecosystem that has financial,
political and behavioral components, with tendencies that are understandable but certainly subject to
significant uncertainty and ambiguity. I'm one of the latter. I think of the Fed and its considerations
as complex, multi-faceted and characterized by a great deal of on-the-one-hand-but-on-the-other-
hand. I'll explain at length below, right after issuing my usual caveats: I'm not an economist, an
expert on monetary policy or a Fed watcher - just a casual observer.

Many people take Fed actions at face value. When the Fed cuts interest rates, as the consensus
expects it to do soon, investors take that as a "buy" signal. Their thought process is simple:
weak economy → rate cuts → economic stimulus → stronger GDP → higher corporate profits
→ higher stock prices. For this reason, many people - first-level thinkers that they are - take a
statement like Powell's above as simplistic and a positive.

But there's much more to the story. Digging deeper, one should ask, "Why is the Fed cutting rates?"
The answer, of course, is that the Fed anticipates economic weakness (or sees it taking place) and
wants to ward it off. So the second-level thinker wonders how bad the outlook is, how much worse it
might have gotten without the rate cut, and whether the cut will be sufficient to avert a slowdown.

In 2006, on the way to the Global Financial Crisis, delinquencies on sub-prime mortgages began to
rise. The trend became more noticeable in mid-2007, leading to falling prices for mortgage-backed
securities; margin calls for mortgage-backed-securities funds (from banks that had given them
leverage); and, eventually, fund meltdowns. Most prominently, on July 31, 2007, two mortgage-
backed-securities funds managed by Bear Stearns filed for bankruptcy.

Investors wanted help, and the Fed rode to the rescue. On September 18, it cut the fed funds rate by
50 basis points, from 5.25% to 4.75%, and issued a statement that included the following:

 Today's action is intended to help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader
 economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and to
 promote moderate growth over time. . . .

 Developments in financial markets since the Committee's last regular meeting have
 increased the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. The Committee will
 continue to assess the effects of these and other developments on economic prospects
 and will act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth.

The rate cut and message were warmly received, with the S&P 500 rising more than 6% over the
next two weeks. Few people, I think, questioned whether this really was good news.

Shortly after that first cut, I considered the following question: If you went to the doctor for an
ailment and he pulled out a huge hypodermic needle, would you take that as good news or bad?
Since the vast majority of Fed actions consist of 25-basis-point interest rate cuts or increases, doesn't
a cut of 50 basis points mean the Fed finds the outlook particularly worrisome? If a rate cut of 25
basis points is good news for the markets, is a cut of 50 basis points better or worse?

My point is that a rate cut's implications aren't always as simple a matter as they may appear to be.
Assuming the Fed is a good diagnostician, a decision to cut rates isn't necessarily good news. You
can argue that, if there's trouble ahead, we're better off with a rate cut than without one. But that
still doesn't make it good news. First, it means the Fed thinks trouble is looming. And second,
it certainly doesn't guarantee the problem will be solved. (It's worth noting that 18 months after
that first rate cut in September 2007 - during which time ten more cuts followed, eventually taking
the fed funds rate to nearly zero - the S&P 500 finally bottomed out, down more than 50% from
where it stood on the day of the first cut.)

Are Low Interest Rates a Good Thing?

The Fed's decision early this year to depart from its announced program of rate increases is widely
recognized as a main contributor - if not the main contributor - to investors' decision to stop pushing
down the markets through selling, as well as to the rally indicated by the S&P 500's gain of roughly
20% so far this year. Since then the rally has been propelled by the expectation of rate cuts, and by
statements like Powell's on page one.

This is the case because of the widespread general faith in the progression I laid out above: weak
economy → rate cuts → economic stimulus → stronger GDP → higher corporate profits → higher
stock prices. But how, exactly, do low rates contribute to wealth creation?

 Low interest rates encourage spending on the part of consumers. Low rates reduce the cost
 of borrowing, lifting demand for things that are often bought on time or leased, like cars,
 homes and appliances. Further, low rates translate into lower monthly payments on floating-
 rate mortgages, leaving consumers more disposable income to spend. Finally, with rates low,
 spending instead of saving entails little in the way of opportunity costs.
 Low rates likewise encourage investment on the part of businesses by reducing the cost of
 capital, and therefore the return hurdle for expenditures.
 Increased demand for goods and services leads to increased hiring, reduced unemployment
 and a tighter labor market, and thus to wage inflation. Rising wages encourage consumer
 spending by putting more money into wage-earners' pockets and improving their mood.
 By reducing the interest expense on companies' floating-rate debt, low rates enhance
 companies' profits; make it easier for them to service their debt; and leave them more cash
 for capital expenditures (which add to GDP), and dividends and stock buy-backs (which put
 money in investors' pockets).
 Low rates reduce the discount factor used in calculating the net present value of future
 cash flows. Thus, all else being equal, there's a direct connection between declining
 interest rates and rising asset prices. (I consider this to have been the dominant feature
 of the world of finance over the last ten years.)
 Low rates on savings and fixed-income investments drive investors to accept increased risk
 in order to pursue decent returns in a low-return world. This increased risk tolerance makes
 the financial markets more accommodating, increasing the availability of financing for
 ventures that otherwise might find capital in short supply.
 Finally, rate cuts are taken as a predictor of further rate cuts, implying more of all the above.
 When they're moving in a positive direction, the things described above contribute to
 the appearance of a virtuous circle.

For these reasons, most market participants (a) would rather have low rates than high rates and (b)
seem to believe that the lower rates are, the better. At this point in time, the U.S. is led by a great
cheerleader for low rates. In fact, Powell's 2018 decision to continue his predecessor's rate increases
and quantitative tightening earned him a place on the list of people experiencing President Trump's
wrath. Here are a few indications of the esteem in which Trump holds Powell:

 My biggest threat is the Fed. Because the Fed is raising rates too fast, and it's
 independent, so I don't speak to him, but I'm not happy with what he's doing.
 (Trump, speaking to Fox Business Network, October 16, 2018)

 "Here's a guy, nobody ever heard of before, and now I made him and he wants to
 show how tough he is? O.K. Let him show how tough he is," Mr. Trump said on
 Wednesday. "He's not doing a good job."

 . . . "We should have [European Central Bank head] Draghi, instead of our Fed
 person," Mr. Trump said. "Draghi, last week, he said lower interest rates and we're
 going to stimulate the economy. They're going to put money into the economy."

 . . . Those comments came after Mr. Trump on Monday accused the Fed of botching
 the job. "Now they stick, like a stubborn child, when we need rate cuts and easing, to
 make up for what other countries are doing against us. Blew it!" Mr. Trump said on
 Twitter. (The New York Times, June 26)

Why would Trump want lower rates? Here are a few possible explanations:

 He's a real estate guy, and the real estate industry lives on high leverage.
 Trump has been a substantial borrower for much of his life, so for him low rates are "all
 good."
 Right now Trump is tightly focused on getting reelected, and ensuring economic growth and
 a rising stock market over the next 16 months is one of the best things he can do to make that
 a reality.
 Along those lines, if reelection is his main goal, he may be relatively indifferent as to what
 happens after Election Day 2020, when the scorecard he cares about most will be closed out.

Here's an expression of Trump's position on rates:

 "Our country's doing unbelievably well economically," he told reporters Friday. Yet
 even as Mr. Trump celebrated the robust hiring numbers, he called again for the
 Federal Reserve to cut interest rates - a step that would ordinarily suggest worries
 about the economy's direction. Growth "would be like a rocket ship" if the Fed
 acted, he declared. (The New York Times, July 6)

On the basis of the above, one might conclude that Trump thinks rates should always be low. But
there was at least one instance when he thought rates were being held too low:

 In late 2015 then-candidate Donald Trump accused Janet Yellen, chair of the Federal
 Reserve, of being part of a political conspiracy. Yellen, he insisted, was keeping

 interest rates unjustifiably low in an attempt to help Hillary Clinton win the
 presidency. (The New York Times, June 20)

Regardless, it's clear that, at this time, Trump thinks low rates are good and there's no reason to
worry about potential negative ramifications. But that doesn't mean they don't exist.

Is There a Downside to Low Interest Rates?

The truth is, there are ways in which low rates are undesirable and potentially harmful. They include
these:

 Low rates stimulate the economy, as described above, and most economists and
 businesspeople believe there's such a thing as the economy becoming too hot. The principal
 worry is excessive inflation. While some inflation is a good thing, too much isn't. It's
 generally accepted that too much of the positives described on page three can lead to
 excessive demand for goods and services; too-tight labor conditions, leading to excessive
 wage inflation; too much market power in the hands of sellers of goods; and thus rising
 prices.
 Too much inflation imposes a hardship on people living on fixed incomes, since their costs
 increase rapidly while their incomes don't. Also, low-income households typically don't
 have the means to hedge against inflation that high-income ones do, such as through
 investments in equities and real assets.
 When low rates penalize savers by reducing the returns available on safe instruments like
 cash, money market funds, savings accounts, Treasury securities and high grade bonds,
 savers' alternative to accepting lower incomes is to assume increased risk in pursuit of the
 higher returns they used to earn safely.
 Thus low rates can lead to investment in undeserving companies and shaky securities,
 encourage the use of excessive leverage, and create asset bubbles that eventually can burst.
 Ultimately, investors' tendency to reach for yield and assume excessive risk can introduce
 risk to overall financial stability.
 Finally, but very importantly, when interest rates are low, central banks don't have at
 their disposal as much of their best tool for stimulating economies: the ability to cut
 rates.

The following is from a report from RDQ Economics dated June 27:

 What seems lost in the policy assessment is a careful discussion of the risks of overly
 accommodative monetary policy. Powell did say this week, "we are also mindful that
 monetary policy should not overreact to any individual data point or short-term swing
 in sentiment. Doing so would risk adding even more uncertainty to the outlook."
 However, our view is that Powell's observation of the downside of a dovish
 overreaction is an inadequate assessment of the risk from unnecessarily adding
 monetary accommodation at this time.

 . . . underlying inflation is already close to target and the Fed's past attempts (in the
 late 1960s/early 1970s) to trade off a little more inflation for sustained lower rates of
 unemployment turned out very badly. Alternatively, higher labor costs from an

 overheated jobs market might squeeze company profit margins and lead to a pullback
 in investment and hiring.

A Daunting Task

The juxtaposition of the above lists of positives and negatives shows that low interest rates - just like
most other aspects of economics - have both pros and cons. A lot depends on how they're viewed.
This is illustrated by one of the greatest cartoons from my collection:

That cartoon is 38 years old. Here's how The Times put it as recently as a couple of weeks ago:

 The gains this week began after Federal Reserve chair, Jerome Powell, suggested the
 nation's central bank was worried about the economy. Just days earlier, strong data
 on the job market had the opposite effect on stocks.

 This counterintuitive reaction to the news is a phenomenon that's explained by
 expectations for interest rates. The weakening outlook for the economy means, in all
 likelihood, borrowing costs are coming down - and in the right circumstances, this
 can be good for stocks. (The New York Times, July 12)

Many people think of an economy as a dependable machine that operates according to diagrams and
rules, and of central bank actions as levers that can be pulled to adjust the functioning of that
machine. But, instead, I believe a lot of uncertainty and variability exist regarding the functioning of

economies and central banks. This means the task of managing an economy is difficult, and its goals
shouldn't be thought of as dependably achievable.

I think a recent article from The Times provides a great picture of how challenging the job is, and
how many ways there are to be wrong. Here's most of it:

 Heading into their policy decision and news conference Wednesday [June 19], there
 were a lot of ways Federal Reserve officials could have messed things up.

 One possibility was a repeat of the meeting in December, when markets judged
 Chairman Jerome Powell and the Fed to be oblivious about negative forces building
 in the markets and in the global economy, and sold off precipitously over the next
 days.

 But the opposite risk was present as well - that out of fear of repeating the
 December episode, Mr. Powell would exhibit too much of a hair-trigger reaction to
 recent signs of a slowdown in inflation pressures and industrial activity. If those turn
 out to be false alarms, a rate cut now would be counterproductive by signaling
 pessimism and making the Fed look jittery and perhaps even overly influenced by
 President Trump's threats to try to demote Mr. Powell over interest rate policy. . . .

 In effect, Fed officials are indicating they think it's pretty likely they will need to cut
 rates, but are waiting for more evidence.

 The relatively muted reaction of financial markets suggests that Wall Street viewed
 the move [i.e., no change in rates on June 19 but foreshadowing likely cuts later in
 the year] as appropriately balanced. The stock market was up, but only a little, which
 helps reduce the sense the Fed is just acting to prop up stocks, while bond yields fell
 further as markets became more confident that rate cuts were on the way.

 So in terms of the narrow goal of getting through Wednesday without either markets
 falling apart or the Fed's credibility being shredded, it was a good day for Mr.
 Powell.

 But the flip side of that is that some lingering questions have been put off to another
 day.

 Deciding to wait for more evidence is a decision, too. Waiting might buy the Fed
 more time to make sure it's getting the decision right, but at the cost of losing the
 opportunity to show it is aggressive and willing to get ahead of a potentially serious
 problem.

 Put differently, if you wait until there is completely compelling evidence of an
 economic shift before doing something about it, you're probably too late.

 On the other hand, if the Fed later judges that the recent bad news really was just
 a temporary blip and that rate cuts were actually not needed, they will face the reality
 of rate cuts even more baked into the prices of Treasury bonds. It would be a doozy
 of an adjustment to bring them into alignment. If the sharp drop in rates that has

 taken place since November were to reverse quickly, it could cause huge damage to
 interest-sensitive sectors like housing and automobiles. ("The Fed Threads the
 Needle, for Now," June 21 - emphasis added)

In other words, there's the risk of being unresponsive or over-responsive, along with the risk of
doing too much or too little, and of doing it too soon or too late.

The Fed usually acts in response to the overall outlook for the economy: hundreds of millions of
transactions entered into by Americans each day. But among the "developments" Powell said the
Fed is monitoring today are some very specific, largely political actions. In particular, the Fed has to
anticipate and cope with the possibility of a trade war, probably the greatest source of economic
uncertainty today. It has to make interest rate and quantitative easing decisions based on its
judgment as to what Trump will do (and its impact). Not to mention the lingering risk that Powell's
job hangs in the balance if the answer isn't low rates. Certainly little of this can be thought of as
scientific or reliable.

Further, the Fed has to practice psychology:

 . . . Mr. Powell was asked at the news conference about academic research suggesting
 that when interest rates are near zero, a central bank actually should be more
 aggressive, rather than less, about cutting rates in the event of a slump - to
 maintain credibility that it will not let deflation take hold.

In "This Time It's Different," I expressed my view that one of the reasons interest rate adjustments
work is that it's commonly accepted that they will work. When a rate cut is announced, people take
it on faith that it will cause the economy to strengthen and markets to rise. Thus they conclude it's
appropriate to spend more and invest more, and their resulting behavior produces the desired
response in the economy and markets. Do the lower rates cause the rise, or is it belief in the efficacy
of rate cuts? Both, I'd say. But certainly the latter's contribution isn't insignificant. As I asked in
"This Time," would a rate cut have the same impact if it weren't accompanied by an announcement?
Clearly, prevailing opinion regarding Fed management matters a great deal in the efficacy of
its actions.

Not only does the Fed have to figure out what actions it should take to keep the economic machine
humming, but also whether people will react positively and trust in them to work. In other words,
psychology, not just economics.

 [Powell] acknowledged the idea behind that [academic] work, saying that "an ounce
 of prevention is worth a pound of cure," but declined to connect it to what exactly the
 Fed might do in the current circumstance. "I don't know what that means in terms of
 the size of a particular rate cut going forward," he said.

 So did the Fed get it right Wednesday with the balanced, nuanced approach Mr.
 Powell chose? The answer is: Ask in a few months.

 * * *

So what's the bottom line? On one hand, our economy is still expanding. Monetary stimulus via
rate cuts (just like fiscal stimulus via deficit spending) is in order when the economy is weak and
failing to create jobs. But stimulus may be somewhere between unneeded and counter-
productive at times like today, when the economy is growing acceptably, the unemployment
rate is at a 50-year low, wages are rising, and the recovery has just become the longest in
history. As I said when the Trump tax cut was enacted in December 2017, doctors don't prescribe
adrenaline for healthy patients. The economy today is healthy. But the Fed has to worry about
whether it will remain so, and in particular whether there will be a full-fledged trade war with China.

Thus, on the other hand, people are concerned about the potential for economic weakness.
Recent market reaction suggests investors are following their usual elementary take: weak economy
→ rate cuts → economic stimulus → stronger GDP → higher corporate profits → higher stock
prices. When Powell indicated on July 10 that a rate cut could be more imminent than most had
thought, the market sat up and saluted, taking the S&P 500 above 3,000 for the first time. It's
always worth considering whether investors are reacting too positively to the prospect of rate
cuts and paying too little heed to the economic weakness on which they're predicated (and the
potential unintended consequences they might bring on).

Thus, on the "third hand," I want to return to the paragraph I included above from "This Time It's
Different":

 Finally, when I hear people talk about the possibility that the Fed will prevent a
 recession, I wonder whether it's even desirable for it to have that goal. Per the
 above, are recessions really avoidable or merely postponable? And if the latter, is it
 better for them to occur naturally or be postponed unnaturally? Might efforts to
 postpone them create undue faith in the power and intentions of the Fed, and
 thus a return of moral hazard? And if the Fed wards off a series of little
 recessions, mightn't that just mean that, when the ability to keep doing so
 reaches its limit, the one that finally arrives will be a doozy?

Should we be happy to see the Fed trying to prolong the economic expansion and the bull market
when they're already the longest in history? Should it try to produce perpetual prosperity and
permanently ward off a correction? Are there risks in its trying to do so? It all depends on which
hand is doing the weighing.


Memo: Mysterious.

Most of the time, my memos have their origin in something interesting that's happening in the world
or in a series of events I come across that I think can be interestingly juxtaposed. This one arises
from a less usual source: a request.

The other day, my colleague Ian Schapiro, the leader of Oaktree's Power Opportunities and
Infrastructure groups, suggested I write a memo about negative interest rates. My reaction was
immediate and unequivocal: "I can't. I don't know anything about them." And then I realized
that's the point. No one does. But Ian thinks I can make a contribution, so I'll try. I've been
saving up clippings on this subject, as you'll see. Ian's urging set me to work.

 * * *

For a good while now, I've used the term "mysterious" in connection with inflation (and deflation).
What causes rapid inflation? How can it be stopped? Economists offer explanations and
prescriptions regarding each occurrence, but they rarely apply the next time.

And that brings us to the subject of negative interest rates. I find them no less mysterious. The fact
that we know what they are - as we do with inflation and deflation - doesn't alter the fact that we
don't know for sure why negative rates are prevalent today, how long they'll continue in force,
what might cause them to turn positive, what their consequences are, or whether they'll reach
the U.S.

No, I'll Pay You!

Historically - until the European Central Bank took the rate on its credit facility to -0.10% in 2014 -
borrowers paid interest to the people from whom they borrowed money. But in the recovery from
the Global Financial Crisis, interest rates went negative for the first time in recent history, meaning
some lenders paid borrowers for the privilege of lending them money.

I had my first direct brush with negative interest rates in 2014, when I was making an investment in
Spain. The closing was due to take place on Monday, and I wired funds on the prior Wednesday so
as to be in position to close. The following conversation ensued with my Spanish lawyer:

 Carlos: The money has arrived. What should I do with it between now and Monday?

 HM: Put it in the bank.

 Carlos: You know that means you'll get less out on Monday than you put in today.

 HM: Okay, then don't put it in the bank.

 Carlos: You have to put it in the bank.

 HM: So put it in the bank.

That's it in a nutshell. Money can't be free-floating in space. It has to be someplace. And you can't
keep much of it in your wallet or under the mattress. Thus, in general, any substantial sum has to go
into the bank. And in Europe - then and now - doing so means you'll get out less than you put in.

I have to admit that this didn't come as a shock to me. Oaktree and I had turned very cautious in
2005-06, and as a result, all of my money that wasn't in Oaktree funds was in a "laddered portfolio"
of U.S. Treasurys. (In my case, equal amounts of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6-year maturities. When the
closest-in note matures, you roll it to the end of the line. It's the most mindless form of investing
known to man.)

At the time I put that portfolio together, I signed up for a yield in the range of 5-6%. And I was
thrilled: the greatest safety, total liquidity and a meaningful yield. But then, in 2007, the Fed started
cutting rates to rescue the economy from the sub-prime mortgage crisis. And one day in late 2008,
my banker called to say, "The 6% note has matured. You can roll it over at five-eighths." I asked,
"What-and-five-eighths?" "No, that's it," he said, "just five-eighths."

The world had changed. Up until the Global Financial Crisis, we could store money with the
government and be well paid to do so. But now my reaction was, "given the level of fear in the
financial world, maybe one of these days people will end up paying to store their money safely."

In the period 2008-14, Europe experienced the Global Financial Crisis, a European debt crisis (with
concern over the solvency of "peripheral" nations on Europe's southern tier), and rapidly escalating
prices for commodity raw materials. In response, the European Central Bank and some non-EU
countries moved to adopt negative interest rates. Here's how it goes:

 Commercial banks usually earn interest on the extra reserves they keep with central
 banks, like the Fed or the European Central Bank. Negative policy interest rates
 force them to pay to keep money in those accounts, a penalty aimed at pushing them
 to lend more and goose the economy. (The New York Times, September 9)

Central banks determine short-term base rates ("policy rates") as described above. That establishes
the origin of the yield curve, and rates/yields on other types of short-term debt, as well as longer-term
instruments, can be expected to respond by moving to a logical relationship with the base rate.
Eventually, negative interest rates paid on bank deposits should be reflected in negative yields on
bonds. (Note: for the most part, negative rates are applied today only to large deposits. Small
depositors have thus far been spared.)

Today, large numbers of bonds - the vast majority being government bonds from Europe and Japan -
carry negative yields to maturity. They constitute roughly two-thirds of the bonds in Europe and 25-
30% of all the investment grade debt in the world. A few corporate bonds also offer negative yields,
however, and there's even a handful of negative-rate high yield bonds (the ultimate oxymoron).

Further, on September 4 Bloomberg pointed out the prevalence of negative real rates:

 While over $17 trillion of the global stock of debt trades at nominal yields below
 zero, the figure jumps to $35.7 trillion when inflation is taken into account. . . . In the
 U.S., more than $9 trillion of the nation's government debt carries yields lower than
 the CPI rate.

With a negative-rate instrument, the price you pay for a bond today exceeds the sum of the face
amount that will be repaid when it matures plus the interest you'll receive in the interim. That means
if you buy a negative-yield bond and hold it to maturity, you're guaranteed to lose money. Why,
then, would anyone want to buy a negative-yield bond? Here are some reasons that make sense:

 Fear regarding the future (relating to recession, market declines, credit crisis or further
 declines in interest rates, among other factors) that causes investors to engage in a flight to
 safety, in which they elect to lock in a sure but limited loss.
 A belief that interest rates will go even more negative, giving holders a profit, as it implies
 bonds will appreciate in price (as they would with any decline in rates).
 An expectation of deflation, causing the purchasing power of the repaid principal to rise.
 Speculation that the currency underlying the bond will appreciate by more than the negative
 interest rate.

The concept behind negative rates is simple. It's merely the reverse of the traditional norm, in which
lenders receive interest from borrowers. Generally speaking, interest rates are a function of two
variables: (a) the time value of money and (b) expected changes in the purchasing power of money
(i.e., inflationary or deflationary expectations). (Of course, interest rates should also incorporate a
risk premium to compensate for any credit risk entailed.) If, for example, lenders want a 2% annual
real return to compensate for the time value of money and expect 2% inflation over the next five
years, a five-year Treasury note should yield 4%. But if lenders expect deflation at 3% per year, that
note should theoretically yield negative 1%.

Are today's negative rates in Europe and Japan telling us deflation lies ahead? Or have
lenders changed their views regarding the time value of money? Or are rates negative simply
because governments and central banks want them to be?

Reasons for Negative Rates

Here are some of the reasons I've come up with for negative interest rates, some I've read about, and
some my friends have suggested:

 The obvious one: central banks in Europe and Japan want rates to be negative to
 stimulate their economies. (They want to supply more stimulus than had been afforded by
 the reduction of rates to near-zero, since that level of stimulus didn't prove up to the task.)
 ". . . central banks around the world are racing to cut interest rates in an effort to stay
 ahead of the Fed and support their economies by weakening their currencies." (The Wall
 Street Journal, August 12)
 Ongoing quantitative easing - central banks' bond purchases - is pushing up the price of
 longer-dated bonds, and thus pushing their yields down into negative territory.
 Quantitative easing means the central banks flood the financial system with money that needs
 investing. Since borrowers don't have much demand for long-term capital, they won't pay to
 use it. Thus holders have to pay a small fee to store that money.
 Fearful investors have little interest in making investments that represent bets on their
 countries' economies and companies. They certainly don't want to borrow for that
 purpose.
 Current economic weakness reinforces investors' pessimism. Fear of increasing weakness
 in the future strengthens their desire for safe storage.
 There's so much money in the system that the excess of supply over demand drives down the
 price of money - borrowing rates - into negative territory. "In today's global economy,
 private investment demand is manifestly unable to absorb private savings . . ." (Lawrence
 Summers, Financial Times, October 12)
 Unfavorable demographic trends mean central banks can't maintain positive rates without
 curbing growth.
 The lack of inflation means investors needn't demand protection against the loss of
 purchasing power over time. The wonders of technology may continue to make products
 available cheap or free, capping inflation.
 Fear of deflation adds further to the willingness to invest without such protection.
 "The rise of businesses dealing in intangible products has rendered the economy less capital-
 intensive . . ." said Grant's Interest Rate Observer on July 26. This reduces the demand for
 long-term borrowings.
 Certain regulations require financial institutions to invest in home-country sovereign
 bonds regardless of the yield they offer (and whether it's positive). This artificially lifts
 the demand for (and thus the prices of) those bonds.

Everyone has favorites from this list. But everyone differs, including the "experts." Some people
think we have negative rates because central bankers want them, some think it's because the market
sets them, and some think it's some of each. "Did interest rates fall, or were they pushed?" asks
Grant's. Given all the above, no one should feel the reasons for negative rates are fully understood.

The Impact of Negative Rates

A quote attributed to Albert Einstein in various forms is relevant to this discussion.

 Compound interest is the 8th wonder of the world. He who understands it, earns it; he
 who doesn't, pays it. (RateCity)

Under compound interest, by not withdrawing interest as it is earned, not only does an investor
earn interest on his principal year after year (as with simple interest), but each year he also earns
interest on the interest that was earned in the preceding years. Thus principal can grow
powerfully if left invested for a long period. (At 10%, $100 grows to $300 in 20 years under
simple interest, but to $673 if allowed to compound.) What a wonder!

There's one problem, however. The miracle of compound interest works in reverse if the interest
rate is negative, making Einstein wrong about its virtue. Who would want to reinvest income at
negative rates? And where would income come from for that purpose?

It's not just Einstein's observation that may be rendered invalid. Negative rates turn a lot
of the usual processes upside down. Here are several examples:

 Negative rates make life more difficult in a TINA ("there is no alternative") world. Many
 investors don't want to knowingly sign on for negative rates. That makes risky
 investments preferable, even if they promise historically low prospective returns. In
 this way, risk aversion is discouraged. "I have no choice but to go into risky assets,
 because I can't accept a negative return on safe ones."

 There is clear evidence that this is happening among institutional investors.
 The flow of pension fund money into any asset that promises to beat zero-rate
 bonds has been so dramatic that equities, junk bonds, property, private equity
 and a host of other more abstruse areas of investment have spiraled in value -
 and to such an extent that they look highly vulnerable to any shock . . ."
 (Financial Times, August 5)

 Proof? What about the fact that in early July, a €3 billion offering of Italian sovereign
 bonds maturing in 2067(!) was almost six times oversubscribed thanks to its lavish
 2.877% yield? What a bonanza Italy was at the time, with a 10-year bond out-yielding
 Germany's 10-year by 215 basis points, 1.78% to -0.37%.
 There's no longer any reason to pay slowly in order to make money on "float."

 o In the old days, people paid their bills on the last possible day, preferring to keep
 the money in the bank and earn interest as long as possible. Under negative rates
 they may prefer to pay sooner.
 o Many insurers traditionally have made money primarily because they paid claims
 years after they collected the premiums on the policies they issued. What happens
 if it costs them money to hold float until claims are paid?

 Likewise, there's no impetus to collect receivables quickly. In the past, wholesale
 customers were offered discounts for paying bills early. Now the seller might say, "No,
 you keep it. I'd rather you paid me in six months."
 Negative rates put pressure on people, such as retirees, who live on the income from their
 investments.

 Importantly, the pessimistic signals sent by negative rates may mean they have a
 contractionary rather than stimulative effect.

 Research has suggested that Japan's negative rate policies may have
 backfired, actually lowering inflation expectations instead of firming them, as
 hoped. (The New York Times, September 11)

 Last week famously blunt ING boss Ralph Hamers excelled himself, all but
 calling the ECB idiotic for planning to shift rates further downwards. "The
 negative rate environment is making consumers so uncertain about their
 financial environment that they're starting to save more rather than less," he
 said.

 Mr. Hamers has a point. Rather than encouraging people to borrow and
 spend, the data suggests nervous eurozone consumers are hoarding. Eurostat
 reports the eurozone household savings ratio is at a five-year high of nearly
 13 per cent. (Financial Times, August 5)

 If interest rates for small savers ever were to go negative, it would give rise to the
 juxtaposition of income penalties for households with benefits for "the elites" through
 their ability to profit from rising equity prices. Economic impact aside, the boost to
 populist politics would likely be dramatic.
 Negative rates can distort the workings of floating-rate financial products. Lenders and
 depositors might have been happy in the past receiving interest rates at a spread over the
 base rate Euribor. With a negative base rate, however, loans and deposits might leave
 them with less money than they anticipated as time passes.
 Negative rates on U.S. Treasurys would, for example, harm the Social Security Fund
 (which can only invest in Treasurys), hastening the day when it runs out of money.
 Negative rates can warp the calculation of discounted present values. In particular,
 when the discount rate is negative, the present value of future pension obligations can
 exceed their future value. The combination of high discounted obligations and low yields
 on investments can be disastrous for the funded status of pension funds.
 Ditto for the impact on bank profitability. Negative rates charged to borrowers can
 sap the returns banks depend on, throwing countries' banking systems into reverse.
 Already, some banks have seen the need to issue mortgages with negative interest rates.
 "In a negative rate environment, the bank must pay to hold loans and securities. In other
 words, banks would be punished for providing credit . . ." (Jim Bianco on Bloomberg,
 September 3) "Certainly Europe's bankers are squealing, as they feel margins squeezed
 by low rates on lending and a reluctance to pass on negative rates to depositors."
 (Financial Times, August 5) Big banks can charge negative rates to corporate and HNW
 depositors, but as I mentioned earlier, thus far retail banks haven't passed them on to
 small savers. Doing so could cause those savers to leave the banking system, depriving it
 of a traditional source of deposits.
 What about the application of negative interest rates to corporate bonds? How will the
 markets value businesses that hold cash versus those that are deep in debt? Traditionally,

 markets have penalized heavily levered companies and rewarded those that are cash-rich.
 But if having negative-yield debt outstanding becomes a source of income, will levered
 companies be considered more creditworthy? Conversely, how will the market value
 businesses that hold a lot of cash and thus have to pay banks to keep it on deposit?
 Financial models and algorithms - which essentially are a matter of looking for and
 profiting from deviations from historic relationships - may not work as well as they
 did in the past, since history (all of which has been based on positive interest rates) may
 be out the window.

 Nobel prizes have been awarded to economists that developed concepts such
 as the efficient frontier, the Capital Asset Pricing Model and the Black-
 Scholes option pricing model. But when a negative value is assumed for the
 risk-free rate in these types of models, fair value results shoot off toward
 infinity. With trillions of securities and derivatives dependent on these
 models, valuation is critical. (Jim Bianco, op. cit.)

The one thing we can't be sure of is that negative rates increase economic growth (or produce
more growth than is generated by low rates). First, this requires "what-if" analysis, which is one
of the most difficult kinds: are Europe and Japan growing faster today than they would have if
their rates weren't negative? And second, you surely can't look at their current growth and
pronounce negative rates a huge success. Are negative rates stimulating demand, or are they a
matter of "pushing on a string," powerless to convince pessimistic consumers to spend?

In the financial world, most of our actions are based on the assumption that the future will
be a lot like the past. Positive interest rates and the desirability of compounding have been
among the most fundamental historical building blocks.

 If negative rates become more widespread across the globe, then the financial
 system needs to be rebuilt on a new set of assumptions. The problem is that
 we do not yet know what those should be or how they would work. (Jim
 Bianco, op. cit.)

At minimum, negative rates mean there's increased uncertainty, and thus we have to
proceed with more trepidation. Whatever we knew in the past about how things worked, I
think we know less when rates are negative.

Will the U.S. See Negative Interest Rates?

As stated above, the vast majority of today's negative-yield bonds are in Europe and Japan. One
of the biggest questions surrounds whether negative rates will reach the U.S.

This question takes me back to my immediate response to Ian's suggestion that I write this
memo: nobody knows, and certainly not me. When something hasn't happened in the past, it's
impossible to be sure you know how it'll end up. Different people will express opinions on

this subject with differing degrees of confidence. Yet I remain certain that none of them
"know."

If I had to take a guess - and that's all it would be - I'd say interest rates won't go negative in
the U.S. in the current cycle. If we go back to the possible reasons for them listed on page four, I
think we'll conclude that the factors at play in the U.S. make negative rates less likely:

 Stronger current economic growth
 Better growth prospects
 Thus no need for emergency measures
 Higher inflation expectations (especially given the tightness of the labor supply)
 Less pessimism
 Better uses for long-term capital

So I don't think current conditions in the U.S. call for negative rates. But that doesn't rule
them out. When you express an opinion, the real question is whether you'll bet on it and
whether you'll give odds. I might put up $60 to win $50 from you if negative rates don't
materialize. But that's not a sign of much confidence on my part.

In particular, I wonder about monetary stimulus. The U.S. fed funds rate is below 2% as I
write, thanks to the two recent rate cuts (and there might be another cut on the way soon). Yet
most stimulus programs have entailed rate cuts totaling several percent. So there's every
possibility that in the future, the Fed's response to economic weakness could take rates into
negative territory.

And the current slowdown in U.S. manufacturing - plus the uncertainty brought on by the on-
again/off-again prospect of an escalating trade war with China - raises the possibility of a
recession, and thus the need for stimulus through rate-cutting.

Some argue that strong demand for safe assets and negative demographic trends apply in the
U.S. also, and thus U.S. bond yields can fall below zero.

Finally, negative rates abroad strengthen demand for dollars so foreigners can invest at the
positive U.S. yields, causing the dollar to appreciate. Thus the Fed may have to lower rates to
keep the foreign-currency cost of U.S. exports from rising too much, and thus their
competitiveness from declining and our economy from weakening. How long can the Fed
maintain rates that are much higher than those in the rest of the world?

Maybe I should reconsider my offer of 6-to-5 in favor of rates staying positive . . .

What, Then, Is There to Do?

I'm convinced that no one should be categorical about how to deal with a mystery like this in
such unprecedented and confusing circumstances. But the Financial Times of August 5
advanced one idea that seems perfectly logical:

 For SFr1,000 a year, your typical Swiss private bank will give you a cubic metre
 of vault storage for your valuables. Thanks to Switzerland's high-value SFr1,000
 notes, that should be enough space to salt away close to SFr1 billion in hard cash.
 The fee is a sight cheaper than the SFr7.5 million charge that a 0.75 per cent
 negative interest rate would imply.

If you don't like that idea, there is one more: move out the risk curve to strive for returns
above those offered by safe instruments in this low-return (or negative-return) world . . .
but do so with caution.

What does moving out the risk curve consist of? Essentially it means pursuing greater rewards
while accepting the reduced certainty that by definition accompanies that pursuit. (If greater
rewards could be obtained without a corresponding increase in uncertainty, that return increment
would represent a free lunch, and most of the time they're not available.)

In a world like the one described above, perhaps the most reliable solution lies in buying
things with durable cash flows. Bonds, loans, stocks, properties and companies with the
likelihood of producing steady (or hopefully growing) earnings or distributions that reflect a
substantial yield on cost all seem like reasonable responses in times of negative yields. In my
view, durability and dependability are highly desirable (rather than hail-Mary attempts at
a moonshot). They are the Oaktree way.

While all this might be self-evident, the challenge lies in accurately predicting the durability and
growth of cash flows and making sure the price you pay allows for a good return. In today's market
environment, assets with predictability are often priced extraordinarily rich, and investors are
unusually willing to extrapolate growth far into the future. At the same time, with the economy and
markets operating under rules that are different from those of the past in many ways - some of which
are reflected above - accurate predictions are apt to prove harder to make than usual. These are
some of the reasons why, while simple in concept, investing is far from easy . . . especially
today.