Memo: You Bet!.

As I've written in past memos, I have an indelible recollection of the first book I read as a Wharton
freshman in 1963. The book was Decisions Under Uncertainty: Drilling Decisions by Oil and Gas
Operators by C. Jackson Grayson, Jr. (who in 1971 would take on the role of "price czar" in the
Nixon administration's efforts to get inflation under control).

The best and most lasting thing I took away from Grayson's book - and the first thing I remember
learning in college - was the observation that you can't tell the quality of a decision from the
outcome. This revelation had a profound influence on me as a 17-year-old and represented the first
critical building block in my understanding of how the world works.

As Grayson explained, you make the best decision you can based on what you know, but the success
of your decision will be heavily influenced by (a) relevant information you may lack and (b) luck or
randomness. Because of these two factors, well-thought-out decisions may fail, and poor
decisions may succeed. While it might seem counterintuitive, the best decision-maker isn't
necessarily the person with the most successes, but rather the one with the best process and
judgment. The two can be far from the same, and especially over a small number of trials, it
can be impossible to know who's who.

By my stage in life - if not well before - one should have figured out his strengths and weaknesses
and tilted his activities toward the former. I've concluded that my strengths include the ability to:

 frame questions,
 logically organize data and weigh pros and cons,
 know what I don't know,
 accept that future outcomes aren't predictable,
 think about the future probabilistically, and
 make decisions incorporating all of the above (although far from always correctly).

Also very important has been the ability to internalize Grayson's point about decision quality (and
thus live with my unsuccessful decisions from time to time). This set of attributes equipped me for a
career in investing . . . and for finding enjoyment in games of chance.

My Life as a Gambler

Although I've made reference to them in some past memos, games have played a bigger part in my
life than you probably know. Because of the many connections between investing and gambling,
many of the investors I respect play blackjack, poker or backgammon. You might enjoy learning
about my past in this regard.

Like most people my age, I spent time as a child playing card games like "War" and "Old Maid"
(there were no videos to watch or video games to play, and my parents considered television a
pernicious influence that had to be strictly rationed). My first brush with "grown-up" games and
betting involved gin rummy starting around age 12. Hours spent playing with my three closest
buddies established a pattern for life.

When I was a sophomore in college (1964-65), card games at the fraternity house took up an
embarrassingly large fraction of my time. A different game occupied our afternoons each semester,
including gin, pinochle, cribbage, hearts, casino, bid whist, spades and tonk (many of these have
since been relegated to the dustbin of leisure-time history). Most evenings were devoted to poker.
(You're right to wonder when I studied. I actually can't remember doing much of it that year.) And
when I eventually got serious about my studies as an upper-classman, I took up the commensurately
serious game of bridge.

The next big step came in 1970-72, when I began to ski and was introduced to backgammon back at
the lodge. Although probably dismissed by non-game players as trivial, backgammon, like bridge, is
a game that requires a great deal of thought and one where study and practice can lead to a very high
level of skill. More on it later.

As you may know, I got Citibank to move me to Los Angeles in 1980. One of the big ways this
changed my life was that it led me to meet my great friend Bruce Newberg, whose mind is perfect for
handling the odds and strategies involved in games (as it is for investing). Bruce and I have had
thousands of hours of enjoyment playing backgammon and gin over the last 40 years. We're
probably about even financially after all that time, and if not, the winner's hourly rate of pay is in
pennies. All we get out of it is fun. Our motto is, "The only thing worse than losing is not playing."

I also enjoy visiting a casino once in a while, and the opportunity to play blackjack. In blackjack,
you and the dealer are each dealt two cards. You can "hit" or "stay" as you choose - take additional
cards from the deck or decline to do so. The dealer has no choice; he's required to hit (or forced to
stay) depending on his card total. In the end, whoever's total is closer to 21 without going over is the
winner.

Lots of people go to casinos every year and lose money at blackjack without knowing the first thing
about how to play successfully. Instead, they count on luck and hunches and say they "just play to
have fun." But there are actions you can learn to take in blackjack - mostly regarding when to hit or
stay - that will improve your results. These have been codified into what's called "basic strategy."

Beyond that, the key to further improving your probability of winning lies in the fact that, unlike
most games of chance, in blackjack the outcomes of future hands aren't independent of the outcomes
of past hands. This is so because in blackjack the dealer deals several hands in succession without
returning the cards that have been played to the "shoe" from which he deals. Thus, which cards have
already been dealt directly determines which cards remain to be dealt. If you can track the former
through "card-counting," you can have an idea about the latter. But since the dealer's shoe can
contain six or eight 52-card decks, keeping track of the cards played in itself requires exceptional
skill.

Edward Thorp wrote the definitive book on this, called Beat the Dealer. When he won too much
money, Ed was banned from the casinos and had to turn to "straight" pursuits. As a result, he studied
warrants on Japanese stocks and developed the art of arbitrage. When I last saw Ed he was living an
idyllic life in Newport Beach, prospering even in the absence of suits, ties or regular office hours.

But let's return to backgammon. In this game, two opponents - one moving clockwise and the other
counter-clockwise - try to bring their pieces around the board while simultaneously preventing the
other from doing so, and then be the first to take them off the board. Each player's ability to move
forward is determined by rolling a pair of dice. It's a total disaster if you're ignorant of the
probabilities governing rolls of the dice and instead rely on luck, gut instinct or what you think is
your innate skill. (In fact, the most important skill in backgammon consists of knowing these
probabilities and thus what actions to take given your position.)

More recently, through study Bruce has gotten too good for me at backgammon, so now we're
mostly down to gin. In gin, each player is dealt 10 cards, and by alternatingly picking from the deck
and discarding, you try to form them into "melds" of three or four cards of the same kind (such
as 9-9-9) or in a run of the same suit (such as 4-5-6-7 of spades). As the hand goes on, you can opt to
"knock" (if your un-melded cards add up to less than a certain number) or try to get "gin" (all 10
cards melded), which pays off in more points - unless your opponent knocks or gets gin first.

An aside: when I speak to students, I often say, "For me, the thing that makes investing fascinating is
the fact that there's no action you can take that is sure to work, no strategy that's always a winner."
To illustrate, I go on: "It's like gin. Sometimes knocking is the best thing to do, and sometimes you
should play for gin." And all I get are blank stares. Few young people play cards anymore, and even
fewer have ever heard of gin.

Another aside. While I don't think they're the result of conscious decisions, my life as a gambler has
always exhibited two characteristics:

 First, I haven't made a serious study of the games I play. I feel if I want to work, I can go to
 the office.
 And second, I only play for small stakes. Some people dream of big killings, and some like
 the frisson attached to risking large sums. I've never felt that my enjoyment increased with
 the amount of money on the table. I play for fun and to test my decision-making, not to win
 big money. (Point of reference: back around 1990, I was visiting Ric Kayne at Lake Tahoe
 and he said, "Tonight I'm going to take you to the casino and make a man of you. We're
 going to play until you win or lose real money!" So he called the casino host and asked him
 to arrange a $25,000 line of credit for me. The host called back a few minutes later and said,
 "Sorry, Ric, I can't justify a $25,000 line for someone whose average bet is $11.")

What about coming full circle? One of the best things I ever did was to teach my son Andrew to be a
game player at an early age. I now have a built-in opponent for gin and backgammon. There can be
few sweeter memories than sitting on a log with him at Big Bear State Park playing War in 1992,
when he was five. And it continues; my five-year-old granddaughter, Rosie, is my new opponent at
War. There's nothing better!

Thinking in Bets

In a past memo, I told a story from my days as a buy-side analyst following the business equipment
industry for First National City Bank. In 1970, one of the bank's portfolio managers asked me whom
I considered to be the best brokerage-house analyst on Xerox. "Well," I answered, "the one who
most agrees with me is so-and-so."

In other words, we tend to respect people who think like we do. Did you ever hear someone say, "I
think Bob's a genius, and he thinks my views are all wrong"? That's something few people would
ever say. No, we tend to think highly of people whose opinions mirror ours.

And that brings me to the source of the inspiration for this memo: a book called Thinking in Bets:
Making Smarter Decisions When You Don't Have All the Facts by Annie Duke. (I provided a blurb
for the dust jacket when it was published in 2018.) Duke completed the coursework and dissertation
for a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Pennsylvania but stopped short of receiving her
degree, and for many years she was the best-known female professional poker player (with over $4
million of tournament winnings). I was rereading Duke's book while on vacation, and so many of
her thoughts on poker and on decision-making in general agreed with mine that I became motivated
to start on the memo you're reading now. Here are some excerpts that will show you why I was
drawn to it [emphasis added]:

 Over time, those world-class poker players taught me to understand what a bet
 really is: a decision about an uncertain future. . . .

 Thinking in bets starts with recognizing that there are exactly two things that
 determine how our lives turn out: the quality of our decisions and luck. Learning
 to recognize the difference between the two is what thinking in bets is all about. . . .

 The result of each hand provides immediate feedback on how your decisions are
 faring. But it's a tricky kind of feedback because winning and losing are only loose
 signals of decision quality. You can win lucky hands and lose unlucky ones. . . .

 What makes a decision great is not that it has a great outcome. A great decision
 is the result of a good process, and that process must include an attempt to accurately
 represent our own state of knowledge. That state of knowledge, in turn, is some
 variation of "I'm not sure." . . .

 . . . we must recognize that no strategy can turn us into perfectly rational actors. In
 addition, we can make the best possible decisions and still not get the result we want.
 Improving decision quality is about increasing our chances of good outcomes,
 not guaranteeing them. . . .

 We are discouraged [in life] from saying "I don't know" or "I'm not sure." We
 regard these expressions as vague, unhelpful and even evasive. But getting
 comfortable with "I'm not sure" is a vital step in being a better decision-maker. We
 have to make peace with not knowing. . . .

 What good poker players and good decision-makers have in common is their
 comfort with the world being an uncertain and unpredictable place. They
 understand that they can almost never know exactly how something will turn out.
 They embrace that uncertainty and, instead of focusing on being sure, they try to
 figure out how unsure they are, making their best guess at the chances that
 different outcomes will occur. . . .

 An expert in any field will have an advantage over a rookie. But neither the veteran
 nor the rookie can be sure what the next flip will look like. The veteran will just
 have a better guess. . . .

You don't have to read far in Thinking in Bets before it becomes clear that Annie Duke shares Jack
Grayson's interest in decision-making under uncertainty. Duke looked for real-world applications at
the poker table, and Grayson in the oil patch. But both worked on how to make decisions when
faced with imperfect information and uncertain outcomes. That brings me to the subject of
investing . . . and this memo.

Parsing the World of Gambling

People who aren't very familiar with games or who don't dwell on them probably think they're all
variations on the same theme. But actually there are big differences. I want to touch on them so I
can go on to create an effective analogy between gaming/gambling and investing. Importantly,
games vary in three primary dimensions: information availability, luck and skill.

Some games (but not all) require players to deal with uncertainty. Whether you or your opponent
will win - or what action you should take - might hinge on information that's not available to you,
and about which you can make inferences or guesses at best. Thus in some games, there's
important "hidden information," and in others there isn't. In poker, blackjack and gin you don't
know what cards your opponent is holding. But in chess and backgammon, everything's plain to see:
the position of the playing pieces on the board. Nothing is hidden. Obviously this is a big
difference. Where no information is hidden, the game is reduced to the other two elements.

After the conditions have been set (the cards have been dealt or the pieces are in their positions on
the board), there's another source of uncertainty. In some games subsequent developments will be
influenced by luck, and in some they won't. Take the two games I said don't involve hidden
information: chess and backgammon. In chess, there's no such thing as luck - no dice to throw or
cards to draw; the key variable is the moves your opponent chooses to make. (I guess there is one
element of luck: how skillful is the opponent you've drawn?)

In backgammon, on the other hand, the moves a player gets to make are entirely determined by what
numbers come up when he rolls the dice. And in card games, what cards he and his opponent draw is
subject to luck. Sometimes these things are total unknowns - a matter of sheer randomness - and in
others, while the outcome can't be predicted with certainty, probabilities can be assigned.

 In blackjack, for example, we can know something about the cards that will come out in the
 future if we can keep track of the ones that already have been played.

 And in backgammon, we know with absolute certainty the probability of every possible result
 of rolling the dice: over a large number of rolls, the number seven will come up 16.7% of the
 time (six of the 36 possible outcomes on a roll of the dice), and the number twelve will come
 up only 2.8% of the time (one out of the 36). Of course, even if we know the probabilities,
 we still don't know which number will come up on any one roll.

Finally, in some games skill is important, and in others it isn't. There's skill (albeit with varying
degrees of difficulty) in all the games I've discussed so far: chess, backgammon, poker and gin.
Games with and without hidden information can entail skill, and games affected and unaffected by
luck can entail skill.

But the role of skill isn't universal in games/gambling. Roulette and wheel-of-fortune are games of
pure chance or luck. The outcome is entirely a matter of random events that can't be predicted at all,
like which slot in a roulette wheel the ball will fall into when the wheel stops spinning. And since
there's no ability to predict future developments, there's no such thing as skill: only luck.

 In the early 1980s, I used to go to Las Vegas with a now-departed friend. He spent a lot of
 time (and money) on wheel-of-fortune, which is nothing but vertical roulette. I used to tell
 him he was "the world's greatest wheel-of-fortune player." Since he thought there actually
 was such a thing as playing the game well, he never got the joke.
 There's a very interesting example in punto banco, a form of baccarat. As Wikipedia says,
 "In punto banco, each player's moves are forced by the cards the player is dealt." That is,
 there are no decisions to make, so clearly no such thing as skill in decision-making. You sit
 down, place your bet, receive your cards, and either win or lose. One version of history says
 baccarat was invented for the enjoyment of a king who wasn't smart enough to learn to play
 games; thus one was developed that required no decisions . . . and thus entailed no skill.

Note from the above the different types of games:

 No hidden information, no luck, skill. (Chess)
 No hidden information, luck, skill. (Backgammon)
 No hidden information, luck, no skill. (Roulette)
 Hidden information, luck, skill. (Blackjack, poker)

Now we can drill down. Here are some important observations:

 Where there's no skill involved, the outcome has to depend entirely on luck.
 But even if skill is involved, luck can still play a role.
 The presence of luck doesn't necessarily preclude a role for skill. In fact, making
 intelligent decisions when future events are uncertain is one of the greatest forms of
 skill. It's what Grayson's and Duke's books are all about.
 Likewise, the ability to deal intelligently with hidden information has to be based on
 skill.

Creating this taxonomy, or "scheme of classification," not only allows me a chance to educate non-
game-players, but it also provides a framework for a comparison to investing (if you hadn't noticed).

How Is Investing Like Gambling?

Hidden information, luck and skill can play a part in investing. In active investing involving public
companies, for example, all three are involved.

 Clearly, no one knows all the relevant facts. The SEC tries to make sure all investors have
 equal access to information, but not necessarily complete access. For example, investors
 won't know about first-quarter developments at a company until it reports earnings in May.
 And no one is supposed to know the results of drug trials and beta tests until they're made
 public.
 Luck - random, unpredictable, often-exogenous events - affects companies and their stocks
 all the time. Many aspects of corporate performance and profitability can be influenced by
 weather, for example. And the TV network carrying the World Series is likely to enjoy much
 greater ad revenue if the teams playing come from major markets rather than small ones.
 Finally, the superior investor has the skill required to better assess revenue and profit
 potential, where we stand in the cycle, the fairness of an asset's price and the margin of
 safety it affords. No one gets these things right all the time, but the superior investor does so
 more often than most.

Not all investing, however, entails all - or necessarily any - of the three elements. Take, for
example, index investing. The index fund manager's job is to produce the same return as the relevant
index.

 There's no such thing as hidden information. The only information the investor needs to
 succeed at his job relates to the composition of the index in question, and there's no mystery
 in that regard.
 Likewise, there's no luck. The forces that influence the securities in the index will have
 exactly the same influence on a properly constructed index fund.
 And finally, there's no skill. All it takes is a well-programmed computer to keep the fund's
 portfolio in line with the index, and that isn't hard to find.

It's worth delving into the matter of investing skill. The efficient market hypothesis posits that (a)
markets are "efficient," (b) thus assets are priced fairly and there are no bargains or overpriced assets,
and (c) as a result, there's no scope for skill or "alpha," defined as the ability to outperform by
capitalizing on mispricings. The traditional view of active investing, which ignores this hypothesis,
is that investing is like blackjack, meaning it's possible for some people to be better at it than others.
But if the efficient market hypothesis is right, investing is like roulette, with investors' returns
beyond their control and solely a function of luck, or what the market does. (Of course, a portfolio's
return can be amplified or diminished relative to the market's return by the portfolio's relative
sensitivity to it: the "beta." And that leads to the question of whether investors have the skill to move
beta up and down in a timely fashion.)

In most markets, the concept of efficiency is neither an absolute truth nor completely inapplicable.
Some markets may be less efficient than others; thus skill may be more relevant in some
markets than in others. Where skill is highly relevant, markets are called "alpha" markets. Where

it's not - and the portfolio return is mostly a function of the market's return and the portfolio's
sensitivity to market movements - they're called "beta" markets. Obviously it's important to figure
out which type of market you're working in.

For years, people (whether consciously or not) treated the stock market as an "alpha" market, and
equity portfolio managers were able to charge substantial management fees for their efforts. But
over time, it was increasingly observed that most active investors were incapable of consistently
outperforming the market indices (especially after fees). That meant skill was lacking: you could get
the same result or better by passively emulating an index. Investors concluded that they would no
longer pay for alpha in a beta market, and that's the main reason for the growth of passive investing.
Why pay someone to play for you in a game where there's no such thing as skill?

What's the bottom line? In my view, the active investing I'm interested in - hopefully in
markets that are less efficient - involves all three of the ingredients under discussion: hidden
information, luck and skill. Thus it's most like poker and blackjack, not chess. It's in that vein
that I'll proceed.

The Essence

One of the most important aspects of skill in gambling consists of figuring out which possible
outcome to bet on, and when to bet heavily and when not to. This is where all facets of the decision
come together.

Gauging the likely outcome - How likely is one participant (you?) to win, and how likely is
someone else? Whether in card games, backgammon or sports betting, there are a number of factors
to consider. The most important are these:

 How good is your current position?
 How many paths do you have to winning (and to losing)?
 To what extent would it require good luck regarding throws of the dice or draws of the cards
 for you to win? And what's the probability your opponent will enjoy good-enough outcomes
 for him to be the winner instead?

The job here is to "handicap" the outcome, defined by Merriam-Webster as "to assess the relative
winning chances of (contestants) or the likely winner of (a contest)." Which poker player has the
best hand? Who's in the better position on the backgammon board? Or for the bettor, which horse is
likely to win the race, or which team is likely to win the game? To put it simply, who's the
favorite?

Many people think figuring out who's most likely to win is all you have to do to successfully bet
on card games, backgammon or sports. They're missing a huge part of the matter, and
perhaps the far more important part.

Assessing the proposition - There's usually not much mystery involved in identifying the favorite.
It's pretty clear who's ahead in backgammon. It's more of a challenge in card games, where players
hold cards the others don't know about, but still it's possible to have a sense for how good one's

hand is in absolute terms. And in most cases there's a solid consensus around which horse or team is
most likely to win.

But one of the most important things to know about gambling is that information that's available to
everyone isn't likely to produce winnings. Since most people know who the likely winner is in a
hand of cards, a backgammon game that's underway or a sports bet, that isn't valuable information.
Everyone might like to bet on a favorite, but that means it's unlikely they'll be able to find
someone to take the other side of the wager: to bet against the favorite without an inducement.

That inducement takes the form of a "proposition." Consider a football matchup in which Team
A is considered twice as likely to win as Team B. Stated another way, Team A is viewed as likely to
win two times out of three, and Team B only once. If it's common knowledge that Team A is that
much better, no one will bet on Team B unless the person who favors Team A is willing to "lay
odds." That is, Joe might tell Ed, "I'll give you 2-to-1 odds; I'll bet $10 against your $5 that Team A
will beat Team B." Assuming the outcomes go according to expectations, Joe wins $5 two times out
of three and loses $10 one time. Over three games, then, the two bettors come out even. That means
2-to-1 odds are "fair" in this situation.

So here's the bottom line: the goal isn't to figure out who the favorite is and bet on it. Rather, the
goal is to figure out who the favorite is and whether the odds are fair or not.

 If the odds are fair, as illustrated above, there's no reason (other than sentiment) to bet on one
 team or the other.
 If the odds don't penalize the favorite enough - let's say the odds on the above matchup are
 only 6-to-5 - you should bet on the favorite. Team A will win two-thirds of the time. The
 one time out of three when they lose, the $6 you pay won't offset the total of $10 you win on
 the two occasions when they come out ahead.
 But if the odds are tilted against the favorite - the odds are "too long," maybe 4-to-1 - it's
 better to bet on the underdog. You'll still lose $1 two times out of three (for a total of $2),
 but on the one game you win, the $4 payoff will more than compensate.

A great example can be seen in the world of backgammon. The player who's ahead can offer to
double the stakes from $5 to $10 by "turning the cube," in which case the other player has to choose
between surrendering for $5 or playing on for $10. Since the leader offers to double because he's
ahead, does that mean it's a mistake for the player who's behind to accept? Not necessarily.

 Clearly, if the laggard surrenders, he loses $5.
 But what if, let's say, he has a 25% chance of winning and plays on for $10? In that case, his
 expected outcome is ($10 loss x .75) + ($10 gain x .25), which works out to the same $5 loss.

The lesson from the above is that a player who is behind should accept a double whenever his chance
of winning exceeds 25%, which would give him an expected loss that's less bad than surrendering
for $5. Sometimes it's a good idea to bet on an inferior position . . . even though doing so is
expected to result in a loss most of the time. It all depends on the proposition.

My friends Matt Bensen and Corey Robinson provided an apt excerpt from a speech titled "The Art
of Stock Picking" by Charlie Munger. In it, Charlie compares investing with the pari-mutuel betting
system at the racetrack, where the payoff for each horse winning is determined by how many people
bet on it:

 If you stop to think about it, a pari-mutuel system is a market. Everybody goes there
 and bets and the odds change based on what's bet. . . . Any damn fool can see the
 horse carrying a light weight with a wonderful win rate and a good post position etc.,
 etc. is way more likely to win than a horse with a terrible record and extra weight and
 so on and so on. But if you look at the odds, the bad horse pays 100 to 1, whereas the
 good horse pays 3 to 2. Then it's not clear which is statistically the best bet . . .

Success in gambling doesn't go to those who pick winners, but to those with the ability to
identify superior propositions. The goal is to find situations where the odds are generous to
one side or the other, whether favorite or underdog. In other words, a mispricing.

It's exactly the same in investing. People often say to me, "XYZ is a great company with a bright
future, so I bought the stock." They're picking a favorite but ignoring the proposition. The former
alone isn't enough; they should consider the latter as well.

Likewise, one might say that even the best venture capitalists are poor at picking winners, since a lot
of their investments result in losses. But the payoff on the ones that succeed is so large, it's sufficient
to pay for the losers many times over and make the overall effort a great success.

While in investing we generally aren't offered explicit odds, the attractiveness of the
proposition is established by the price of the asset, the ratio of the potential payoff to the
amount risked, and what we perceive to be the chance of winning versus losing.

Superior investors may be superior because they can figure out which companies are likely to be
winners. But the best investors I know also have a sense - perhaps innate and instinctive - for
situations where the proposition is too favorable relative to the underlying fundamentals. It
might be a company whose securities are cheap enough to more than compensate for its poor
prospects, or one where the future is exceptionally bright, but its securities aren't priced high enough
to charge fully for that potential.

In May 1968, when I showed up at First National City Bank for a summer job in the investment
research department, the bank (and many other banks) invested primarily in the "Nifty Fifty." These
were considered to be the best and fastest-growing companies in America: companies so good that
there was "no price too high." And if you bought those stocks the day I arrived and held them firmly
for five years, you lost almost all of your money . . . investing in the best companies in America.
All the companies were considered future winners. Some actually were, but far from all. (What
happened to Kodak, Polaroid and my favorite, Simplicity Pattern?) The proposition was wrong: they
were priced as if they couldn't lose, and it turned out several would.

Then, in 1978, I switched to Citi's bond department, and I was asked to start a high yield bond fund.
Now I was investing in the bonds of the worst public companies in America - all rated speculative
grade, or "junk." And I was making good money safely and steadily. Not because the companies

were flawless - in fact, about 4% by dollar amount would go on to default each year on average - but
because "the price" was too favorable to those who bet on them.

This experience produced two of my most important observations:

 Success in investing doesn't come from buying good things, but from buying things well,
 and it's essential to know the difference.
 It's not a matter of what you buy, but what you pay for it.

Nifty Fifty investors spent all of their time picking favorites and failed to notice that the prices they
paid were too high. Mostly winning companies, but poor investments.

And because popular opinion was stacked so heavily against high yield bonds, those who invested in
them received excessive compensation for taking the associated risk: the proposition was too good.
Moody's defined a B-rated bond as one that "fails to possess the characteristics of a desirable
investment." In other words, Moody's panned those bonds because they were underdogs but never
asked about the price. It's usually non-objective, too-positive or too-negative attitudes like these that
give rise to propositions that are too good or too bad for the takers. That's what we should search for
as investors.

Guest Contributor

As I mentioned on page three, one of the best things I ever did was to encourage my son Andrew to
develop a love of games. In Andrew's case, he applied the same seriousness to games that he does to
investing and his other pursuits. This gave him the thought process of a gambler and enables him to
suggest the following ways in which gambling has parallels to investing:

 Game selection versus skill - When considering where to invest, it's important to
 understand both how much of the requisite skill you possess and the quality of the
 competition. Being a consistent winner among the best gamblers or in the most intensely
 competitive markets can be very difficult. Instead, your energy might be better spent looking
 for less-efficient niches. Unfortunately, it's harder to find them than it was decades ago.
 Increasing efficiency/the tendency of markets to adapt - In the early days of online poker,
 it was easy for decent players to win, and a lot of amateurs were enticed to play by seeing a
 newcomer win the World Series of Poker. After some time, however, the games became
 tougher as they attracted professional players, and the amateurs lost their money. The new,
 more sophisticated generation of competitors learned their predecessors' tendencies,
 improved on their strategies and started beating them. In this way, changes in the arena and
 in participants' behavior can cause what worked years ago to not work today.
 Circle of competence - Just because you're great at gin rummy doesn't mean you should
 play Texas Hold'em against a professional poker player. It's important to know your
 strengths and stick to them.
 Not having to play every hand - There's no requirement to bet on every game or every
 hand. You can wait until you get a particularly attractive proposition, one that you feel
 particularly capable of analyzing and understanding, and where the odds are on your side. In
 the interim, it's better to sit out and protect your bankroll.

 The importance of not just winning and losing, but of maximizing wins and minimizing
 losses - The key is to bet big when you have a big edge and small when you have less of an
 edge . . . and to know the difference. As Charlie Munger puts it, "The wise ones bet heavily
 when the world offers them that opportunity. They bet big when they have the odds. And
 the rest of the time, they don't. It's just that simple." Everyone will have both winners and
 losers. Various factors will determine the ratio. But the ability to assess propositions can
 enable you to win more on your winners than you lose on your losers. The size of your bet
 should take into account both the probability you are correct about who's going to win and
 the asymmetry of the potential payout. "Getting your money in" when you have a great hand
 is one of the most important keys to winning at poker. You don't get many great hands, so
 when you do, you have to be sure to take maximum advantage.
 Being able to make it through downturns - It's important to have discipline when risking
 your capital, so that you can survive unfavorable periods and still be around when the
 winners show up. You have to avoid the risk of ruin, and this requires solid discipline (you
 must "never forget the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the river that was five feet
 deep on average"). To that end, good play isn't just a function of relying on the expected
 value of your holdings and pure math, but also of thinking broadly about risk. Would you bet
 all your money on an 80/20 favorite?
 Adjusting your play based on the environment - In poker, if your competition is weak,
 you may decide to play more hands regardless of their strength and bet more aggressively,
 while against strong players you may tighten up and only play premium hands.
 Overcoming emotion and biases - Human failings can cause gamblers to "chase" in poker
 (overstay in a hand in the hope of getting a lucky card), play loose (bet too much) when
 they're "steaming" (smarting from losses and thus driven by heated emotion), and take bad
 doubles in backgammon. Hope, emotion and optimism are the gambler's enemies.
 Second-level thinking - It's not just how good your hand is. There's much more. How
 good does your opponent think your hand is? How good do you think your opponent's hand
 is? How good does he think you think his is? How is that motivating his actions? The
 consistent winner has to be able to think at a higher, more complex level than the rest.

All the ideas discussed above are important in investing, just as they are in gambling. In both
pursuits, it all comes down to Jack Grayson's title: Decisions Under Uncertainty. As I've learned in
the 56 years since first reading his book:

 You have to be able to understand which companies or assets are favored and the
 attractiveness of the proposition.
 You need a sense for whether your holding is a good one and for the chance the competition
 - the market, which you're playing against - might have better.
 You need the discipline to follow a process and the wisdom to accept that no process is sure
 to produce good results.
 You have to understand the significance of the information you have, as well as that which
 you don't have. You need the nerve to bet heavily based on what you think you know and a
 healthy respect for what you may not know.
 You need to control greed and fear, hopefulness and despondency. You have to resist
 making an unwise bet just because it could enable you to catch up with the indices or the
 competition.

Since her book provided the impetus for this memo, I'll let Annie Duke sum up. She'll be talking
about poker, but it'll sound a lot like investing [emphasis added]:

 When we think probabilistically, we are less likely to use adverse results alone as
 proof that we made a decision error, because we recognize the possibility that the
 decision might have been good but luck and/or incomplete information (and a sample
 size of one) intervened.

 Maybe we made the best decisions from a set of unappealing choices, none of which
 were likely to turn out well.

 Maybe we committed our resources on a long shot because the payout more than
 compensated for the risk, but the long shot didn't come in this time.

 Maybe we made the best choice based on the available information, but decisive
 information was hidden and we could not have known about it.

 Maybe we chose a path with very high likelihood of success and got unlucky. . . .

 But it also means we must redefine "right." If we aren't wrong just because things
 didn't work out, then we aren't right just because things turned out well. . . .

 First the world is a pretty random place. The influence of luck makes it impossible to
 predict exactly how things will turn out, and all the hidden information makes it even
 worse. If we don't change our mindset, we're going to have to deal with being wrong
 a lot. . . .

 Poker teaches that lesson. A great poker player who has a good sized advantage over
 the other players at the table, making significantly better strategic decisions, will still
 be losing over 40% of the time at the end of eight hours of play. That's a whole lot
 of wrong. And it's not just confined to poker. . . .

 How can we be sure that we are choosing the alternative that is best for us? What if
 another alternative would bring us more happiness, satisfaction, or money? The
 answer, of course, is we can't be sure. Things outside our control (luck) can
 influence the result. The futures we imagine are merely possible. They haven't
 happened yet. We can only make our best guess, given what we know and don't
 know, at what the future will look like. . . . When we decide, we are betting whatever
 we value . . . on one of a set of possible and uncertain futures. That is where the
 risk is.

Investing is a game of skill - meaning inferior players can't expect to be above average winners
in the long run. But it also includes elements of chance - meaning skill won't win out every
time. In the long run, superior skill will overcome the impact of bad luck. But in the short run,
luck can overwhelm skill, and the two can be indistinguishable.

These are the things that make investing both challenging and stimulating. They're the reason I feel
good about the way I chose to spend my career.


Memo: Nobody Knows II.

I wrote most of this memo over this past weekend, on the heels of the tumultuous seven-day
correction. But I couldn't get it out on Monday, and that day the S&P 500 rallied by 4.5%, or 135
points, for the biggest point gain in its history. I just can't update it daily to take into account every
rise or fall (or rate cut). And my real goal - as usual - is to suggest how to think about
developments, not to say "buy" or "sell." So please read this memo as of Sunday afternoon -
whatever the markets have done since - and let me show how I assess the recent events.

 * * *

I last used this memo title on September 19, 2008, two days after Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy
filing. This is certainly an appropriate time to recycle it.

Over the last few weeks, I've been asked repeatedly for my view of the coronavirus and its
implications for the markets. I've had a ready answer, thanks to something from my January memo,
You Bet! As you may remember, I drew heavily on quotations from Annie Duke's book on decision
making, Thinking in Bets. The one that stayed with me most - and that I've used a lot since the
memo was published on January 13 - is this one:

 An expert in any field will have an advantage over a rookie. But neither the veteran
 nor the rookie can be sure what the next flip will look like. The veteran will just
 have a better guess. (Emphasis added)

In other words, if I said anything about the coronavirus, it would be nothing but a guess.

I've written in the past about my reaction when people in China ask for my view of their country's
future. "You live there," I say. "I don't. Why are you asking me?" Not only am I not an expert on
China, but I firmly believe the future of a country isn't subject to prediction, especially one that
operates under a system that's unique. I furnish my opinion of China's future, but I hasten to point
out that it's nothing but a hunch. People may ask me for my opinion because they think I'm
intelligent, think I've been a successful investor, or know I've lived through a lot of history.
But none of that should be confused with expertise on subjects of every kind.

And that leads me back to the coronavirus. No one knows much about it, since this is its first
appearance. As Harvard epidemiologist Marc Lipsitch said on a podcast on the subject, there are (a)
facts, (b) informed extrapolations from analogies to other viruses and (c) opinion or speculation. The
scientists are trying to make informed inferences. Thus far, I don't think there's enough data
regarding the coronavirus to enable them to turn those inferences into facts. And anything a
non-scientist says is highly likely to be a guess.

So, overall, there are facts, inferences and guesses. It's always essential to know which you're
dealing with. As for the virus, I don't think anybody knows the answers to the following questions:

 How does the virus travel from person to person and community to community? -
 People have tested positive who had no known contact with other people who had it or who
 were in countries in which there are known outbreaks.
 How many people will contract it? - On February 28, the head of the World Health
 Organization said it had "increased our assessment of the risk of spread and the risk of impact
 of COVID-19 to very high at a global level." According to Dr. Lipsitch, it will affect 40% to
 70% of all adult Americans. (I only provide this as an example. I don't assert that it's
 correct, or that his is the opinion to accept.)
 Will it recede? - According to the reported data, the number of new cases in China has
 declined substantially, from 9 out of 13 days with more than 3,000 the first half of February,
 to 8 out of 9 with less than 500 at the end of the month. How much of this is a function of
 the restriction of people's freedom of movement? To what extent can this downtrend be
 extrapolated to the rest of the world? Some say the virus will recede when the weather turns
 warm, as happens with other flus. Will that apply in this case?
 What will its effect be? - To date, only 20% of those contracting the virus have experienced
 something described as more than "mild," and the fatality rate has been only 2-3% of those
 infected. Will these percentages hold? Will the fatalities continue to be primarily among
 people who are elderly and/or compromised? 2% of Dr. Lipsitch's 40-70% suggests a
 million deaths in the U.S. On the other hand, according to Dean Jamison, a global health
 economist and professor emeritus at University of California, San Francisco:

 . . . the U.S. has a superior health system to China, where the outbreak is
 centered, and months of warning. . . . "I think we're unlikely to see a really
 large outbreak in the U.S. - meaning thousands of deaths," he said. (The Wall
 Street Journal, March 2)

 What countermeasures will be taken? - Will schools and offices be closed? Will people
 be told to stay in their homes? Will food be delivered to homes as in China? Will large
 public events be canceled? Will a vaccine be invented, and when?
 What will be the effect on the economy? - If people are shut in at home and unable to go to
 work, shop, eat out or travel as usual, how will GDP be impacted? How will a negative
 wealth effect impact people's propensity to spend? "Zero GDP growth" means the same
 thing as "same as last year" - is that an optimistic expectation or a realistic one?
 How will the markets react? - Since the markets' reaction ultimately will be a function of
 both economics and emotion, it seems impossible to quantify how far it'll go.

I want to stress that the purpose of the above discussion isn't to give answers or to appear to be
complete or authoritative. If anything, it's to indicate the degree of uncertainty. If it's true, as
I think, that these things are currently unknown and unknowable, then clearly there can be no
such thing as a reliable statement regarding the implications of the virus.

The Economic Impact

In the early days of the disease, when the coronavirus was something that was happening "over there,"
the effects likewise were mostly second-hand:

 obviously, a major contraction of the Chinese economy due to factory closures,
 the decline in retail spending in Asia,
 the curtailment of travel to and from Asia, and
 the important impact of shutting down an essential part of the world supply chain.

The supply-chain effects are particularly important. The unavailability of a small Chinese component
can cripple the production of a large piece of equipment. And it only takes one, unless there are
alternative sources. Relocating sourcing will be a challenge: it'll take time, and there's no assurance
that the new locations won't become engulfed in the disease.

More recently, the repercussions have moved beyond Asia and closer to the U.S., and they have grown
in scale for the non-Asia world:

 Nestlé SA told more than 290,000 employees to suspend international business
 travel until March 15. Several U.S. airlines are canceling flights to China and waiving
 change fees for passengers traveling to other affected destinations. U.S. apparel and
 footwear companies are facing supply-chain delays, which could result in a shortage
 of spring goods. Toy aisles may be bare as production of Barbies and Nerf guns in
 China flattened. And containership operators have canceled 40 sailings at the Port of
 Los Angeles through April 1, mostly for vessels coming from China. (The Wall
 Street Journal, March 2)

The reasons for the economic impact are understandable, but their collective impact can't be
quantified any more than most economic phenomena, and probably less given how much the
elements in this situation are in flux. There are as many forecasts as there are forecasters:

 S&P Global is forecasting the U.S. economy to slow to a 1% annual growth rate in
 the first quarter from 2.1% pace in the fourth quarter of 2019, with a half-percentage
 point attributable to the coronavirus. For the full year, the effect would be modest,
 shaving one or two tenths of a percentage point off growth. But that forecast assumes
 the impact is mainly overseas. (The Wall Street Journal, March 2)

 Mr. Jamison [the UCSF emeritus professor introduced above] said such a scenario
 could still cause U.S. businesses and schools to close, grind transportation networks
 to a halt, and trim a half percentage point from economic growth for the year. That is
 enough to slow the economy but not cause a recession, or two straight quarters of
 economic contraction. He expects any event wouldn't last longer than several months
 and be followed by a sharp increase in economic activity. (Ibid.)

 "You have all the ingredients for an interruption of economic activity here," said Carl
 Tannenbaum, chief economist for Northern Trust. "The impact of what's going on is
 being underappreciated," he added. "I don't think the presumption of a month ago,
 that this will blow over, is an appropriate posture at this point." (Ibid.)

 Self-Fulfilling Expectations Pose Real Economic Risks: Consumers increasingly
 expect the economy to get worse. Morning Consult's Index of Consumer
 Expectations (ICE) fell 2.5 points since Feb. 24 and currently stands at 112.9. The
 fear for policymakers is that the slide in consumers' future expectations becomes a
 self-fulfilling prophecy: As more consumers expect the economy to contract in the
 coming months, they become more likely to delay discretionary purchases, which in
 turn drives down aggregate U.S. demand. (Morning Consult, March 1)

Investor Reaction

The markets' decline in the seven trading days February 20-28 certainly represents a very strong
negative reaction. The S&P 500, for example, declined by 432 points, or 12.8%. Here are a couple
of indications of its magnitude:

 The market crash in the past two weeks has been truly historic: its probability of
 occurrence is ~0.1% since 1896; the velocity of the plunge and of the VIX surge is
 the fastest on record; and the 10-year [Treasury yield] is at all-time low. (Hao Hong,
 BOCOM International, a subsidiary of Bank of Communications, March 1)

 While we are merely days into it, this stress episode is already among the most
 substantial of the last 25 years, joining an elite group that includes Asian Contagion
 (1997), LTCM (1998), the WTC attack (2001), the Accounting Scandals (2002), the
 Big One (2008-2009), the Flash Crash (2010), the Eurozone Crisis (2011), the China
 "re-peg" (2015) and the VIX event (2018). (Dean Curnutt, Macro Risk Advisors,
 March 1)

There's no doubt about the fact that the coronavirus represents a major problem, or that the reaction
so far has been severe. What really matters is whether the price change is proportional to the
worsening of fundamentals.

For most people, the easy thing is to say that (a) the disease is dangerous, (b) it will have a negative
impact on business, (c) it has kicked off a major reaction to date, and (d) we have no way of knowing
how far the decline will go, so (e) we should sell to avoid further carnage. But none of the above
means selling is necessarily the right thing to do.

All these statements reflect a measure of pessimism. However, there's no way to tell whether that
pessimism is appropriate, inadequate or excessive. I wrote in On the Couch, (January 2016) that "in
the real world, things generally fluctuate between 'pretty good' and 'not so hot.' But in the world
of investing, perception often swings from 'flawless' to 'hopeless.' " What I can say is that a month
ago, most people thought the macro outlook was uniformly favorable, and they had trouble thinking
of a possible negative catalyst with a serious likelihood of materializing. And now the unimaginable
catalyst is here and terrifying.

(There are a few important lessons here. First, the catalyst for a recession or correction isn't always
foreseeable. Second, it can seemingly appear out of thin air, as this virus seems to have done. And

third, the negative effect of an unforeseeable catalyst is likely greater when it collides with a market
that reflects so much optimism that it is "priced for perfection.")

Before leaving this subject, I want to make mention of some illogicalities that mark the current
market reaction, telling me that the market can't be relied on to reflect reason:

 Some people are comparing the coronavirus and its market reaction to the events of 9/11.
 But that was a one-day event, and there's no reason to consider that an appropriate model for
 this instance.
 It can be argued that the carnage to date has been indiscriminate. The shares of Amazon and
 Alphabet (Google) experienced declines in line with that of the overall market. But certainly
 since they don't rely on visits from customers, they might be expected to be more immune to
 the effect of the virus than most. And Amazon - featuring e-tail orders and at-home
 deliveries - could actually find advantages in the current situation.
 Not only were stocks hit over the last week, but so was gold. Since gold is supposed to be
 the ultimate source of protection in times of dislocation, I can't imagine any reason why it
 should decline in sympathy with stocks in a market correction.
 In a flight to safety, people have flocked to the 10-year Treasury note, bidding up its price
 and dropping its yield to 1.1%. If you think about it, this isn't very different from the
 negative interest rates I complained about in October. How can it be anything but a
 manifestation of extreme fear to make an investment that guarantees a return of 1.1% a year
 for the next ten years? And consider that question in the light of the 2% dividend yield on
 the S&P 500, or perhaps its earnings yield of almost 6% (based on prior earnings forecasts).
 I'm not a dyed-in-the-wool devotee of equities, but how can buying the 10-year at these
 yields make better sense.

Finally I want to call your attention to the "elite group of stress episodes" of the last 25 years
enumerated just above by Dean Curnutt. Every one of them was gut-wrenching. And they were
followed by recoveries that produced significant gains for stalwart investors.

Most investors seem to think in terms of a very simple relationship: bad news → price declines. And
certainly we've seen some of that over the last week or so. But I've argued in the past that there's
more to the story. The real process is: bad news + decline in psychology → price declines. We've
had bad news, and we've had price declines. But if psychology has declined too much, it might be
argued that the price declines have been excessive given the news, as bad as it is.

Monetary and Fiscal Policy

The good news is that many market participants are counting on the world's central banks and
treasuries to help pull us out of any economic slowdown. Here's one example:

 [On February 28,] Fed Chairman Powell released a short statement saying, "The
 fundamentals of the U.S. economy remain strong. However, the coronavirus poses
 evolving risks to economic activity. The Federal Reserve is closely monitoring
 developments and their implications for the economic outlook. We will use our tools
 and act as appropriate to support the economy." Following Powell's statement,

 futures markets moved to fully price in a 50‐basis‐point rate cut on March 18. (RDQ
 Economics, February 28)

Market participants seem to think that (a) rate cuts and other stimulus are always a good thing and (b)
they'll work. Yet, given that the economic impact of the disease is unknowable, how can investors
be sanguine about the ability of the Fed (plus other central banks and treasuries) to counteract it?

Fifty basis points this month may or may not be enough to stem the tide. But investors probably
infer from Powell's "we will use our tools and act as appropriate" language that the Fed will "do what
it takes." But we must be mindful of the limitations on "ammunition" that exist. In On the Other
Hand (August 2019), I supplied a list of "ways in which low rates are undesirable and potentially
harmful." The last one was this:

 Finally, but very importantly, when interest rates are low, central banks don't have at
 their disposal as much of their best tool for stimulating economies: the ability to cut
 rates.

The normal program of rate cuts covers roughly 500 basis points. That's not a very encouraging
thought when we think about the fact that the short rate already stands at a mere 150 bps. So the one
thing we know is that the Fed doesn't have room for a normal regime of rate-cutting (there's uniform
insistence that it won't cut into negative territory).

Further, we have to wonder about the desirability of using 50 bps of the 150 bps the Fed does have at
its disposal. Will it be enough? And what will the Fed be able to do when the economic impact
of the virus has been muted but we only have 100 bps or less left with which to fight any
recession that appears?

The facts regarding monetary and fiscal policy are these:

 In 2009, to fight the Global Financial Crisis, the Fed cut short-term rates to zero for the first
 time.
 Not wanting to derail the subsequent recovery, it hesitated to raise rates before Chair Yellen
 enacted a series of rate increases in 2015-18 that took the Fed funds rate to 2.25-2.50%.
 When around the end of 2018 interest rates reached levels that investors feared would
 jeopardize the economic expansion, Chair Powell's Fed reversed course and embarked on a
 series of three rate cuts.
 Thus today we have the 150 bps I mentioned above - "limited ammunition."
 In addition to rate cuts, the Fed has the ability to pump liquidity into the economy by
 engaging in quantitative easing through purchases of government securities. But we can't
 know the long-term impact of expansion of the Fed's balance sheet.
 Finally, looking away from the Fed, we can think about fiscal policy (i.e., increased deficit
 spending). But this will add even more to our national debt.

Normally, fiscal and monetary stimulus is applied in times of economic weakness. (Even Lord
Keynes, whom many people consider the father of deficit spending, advocated running deficits and
accumulating debt when the economy grows too slow to create jobs, and then repaying the debt when
the stimulus produces surpluses.) Now we have near-zero interest rates and trillion-dollar deficits in

times of prosperity. No one wants a recession, but using up our ammunition preemptively may not
have been smart.

The Fed/government's tool for fighting the economic impact of coronavirus are very limited. Thus I
believe it's undesirable to be highly sanguine about their powers at this juncture.

What to Do?

These days, people have been asking me whether this is the time to buy. My answer is more nuanced:
it's probably a time to buy. There can be no unique time to buy that we can identify. The only thing we
can be sure of today is that stock prices, for example, are a lot lower in the absolute than they were two
weeks ago.

Will stocks decline in the coming days, weeks and months? This is the wrong question to ask . . .
primarily because it is entirely unanswerable. Since we don't have answers to the questions about
the virus listed on page two, there's no way to decide intelligently what the markets will do. We know
the market declined by 13% in seven trading days. There can be absolutely no basis on which to
conclude that they'll lose another 13% in the weeks ahead - or that they'll rise by a like amount - since
the answer will be determined largely by changes in investor psychology. (I say "largely" because it
will also be influenced by developments regarding the virus . . . but likewise we have no basis on which
to judge how actual developments will compare against the expectations investors already have factored
into asset prices.)

Instead, intelligent investing has to be based - as always - on the relationship between price
and value. In other words, not "will the collapse go further?" But rather "has the collapse to date
caused securities to be priced right; or are they overpriced given the fundamentals; or have they
become cheap?" I have no doubt that assessing price relative to value remains the most reliable way
to invest for the long term. (It is the thrust of the whole discussion just above that there's nothing
that provides reliable help in the short term.)

I want to acknowledge up front that ascertaining intrinsic value is never a simple, cut-and-dried
thing. Now - given the possibility that the virus will cause the world of the future to be very
different from the world we knew - is value too unascertainable to be relied upon? In short, I don't
think so. What I think we do know is that the coronavirus is not a rerun of the Spanish flu pandemic
of 1918, "which infected an estimated 500 million people worldwide - about one-third of the planet's
population - and killed an estimated 20 million to 50 million victims, including some 675,000
Americans." (history.com) Rather, it's one more seasonal disease like the flu, something we've had
for years, have developed vaccines for, and have learned to deal with. The flu kills about 30,000-
60,000 Americans each year, and that's terrible, but it's very different from an unmanageable
scourge.

So, especially after we've learned more about the coronavirus and developed a vaccine, it seems to
me that it is unlikely to fundamentally and permanently change life as we know it, make the
world of the future unrecognizable, and decimate business or make valuing it impossible. (Yes,
this is a guess: we have to make some of them.)

The U.S. stock market's down about 13% from the top. That's a big decline. It would be a lot
to accept that the U.S. business world - and the cash flows it will produce in the future - are
worth 13% less today than they were on February 19. That sentence may make it sound like I
think the market's undervalued. But that's not the proper interpretation. If it was overvalued on the
19th, rather than being undervalued today, after the decline, it could just be less overvalued. Or it
could be fairly valued, or even undervalued, but it isn't necessarily.

I think the stock market was overvalued two weeks ago . . . somewhat. That means I think that
today, even with the short-term prospects of business somewhat diminished, it's closer to fairly
valued, but not necessarily a giveaway. In the starkest numerical terms, before the rout, the p/e
ratio on the S&P 500 was 19 or so, roughly 20% above the post-World War II average (and there are
arguments on both sides regarding the current applicability of that average). Thus, after a 13%
decline, you'd have to say the p/e ratio is pretty close to fair (unless earnings for the year will be very
different from what they previously had been expected to be).

Buy, sell or hold? I think it's okay to do some buying, because things are cheaper. But there's no
logical argument for spending all your cash, given that we have no idea how negative future events
will be. What I would do is figure out how much you'll want to have invested by the time the bottom
is reached - whenever that is - and spend part of it today. Stocks may turn around and head
north, and you'll be glad you bought some. Or they may continue down, in which case you'll
have money left (and hopefully the nerve) to buy more. That's life for people who accept that
they don't know what the future holds.

But no one can tell you this is the time to buy. Nobody knows.


Memo: Latest Update.

I'm going to do all I can to provide information and views throughout this crisis, albeit perhaps
without the kind of narrative or literary flourish I usually try for.

Flattening the Curve

The spread of the virus has been described as "exponential." Most people use this word without
understanding precisely what it means. In short, exponential growth is the real-world version of what
people in our business refer to as compounding. In other words, there's a growth percentage, and the
parameter in question increases by that percentage every period. Thus the rate of growth is
constant, but the magnitude of the increase grows in each period. For years, we've talked about
things on the Internet "going viral." This is what exponential growth means.

If the number of daily new cases grows at a constant 10% (almost certainly a substantial
understatement in the current case), and we start with 100 new cases on day 1, there will be 110 new
cases on day 2; 121 on day 3; 133 on day 4; and 146 on day 5. The ultimate potential number of
daily new cases is ugly. If the number of new cases continues to grow at 10% per day, there will be
1,745 new cases on day 31. (I'm very sorry to have to write about a number like that.)

Short-term success in fighting the virus isn't described in terms of eliminating the disease but rather
"flattening the curve." In other words, (a) reducing the growth rate will result in a smaller increase in
new cases each day (but still an increase), and (b) making the growth rate negative means there will
be fewer new cases each day than the day before (but still new cases).

Observers seem to be working under the assumption that, sooner or later, "the curve will be flattened
and then bent downward," meaning the disease will be controlled and perhaps disappear in three to
six months. The reasons for optimism in this regard are as follows:

 People will isolate increasingly. The closures of schools, businesses and gathering places
 will help in this regard.
 Testing will allow us to identify those with the disease and separate them from the healthy
 population.
 The disease will fade when warm weather sets in (other epidemics that have appeared in
 recent decades have proved seasonal in this way).
 A preventive vaccine or therapeutic medication will be developed and approved.

Of course, no one knows whether or when these things will happen. But we can hope that the
combination will limit the disease to the next three to six months as described above.

Short-Term Response

It's clear that strong actions are essential in order to halt or reverse the rising trend in the number of
new coronavirus cases. Things we've seen in other countries include:

 Not suggesting, but ordering people to desist from going out, gathering and socializing.
 Imposing punishment for stepping over the threshold of their homes.
 Prohibiting movement on the part of people who have been diagnosed, and tracking their
 movement through cell phones.

There seems to be no doubt about the fact that success in flattening the curve comes best from
identifying the people who have the disease and preventing them from passing it on to others. Thus
the battle against the virus may bring public health considerations into conflict with civil liberties.
It's "un-American" to restrict people's movements, but so far the American spirit of independence
seems to be allowing some people to justify maintaining their usual behavior. Rules may be
required, not just warnings, suggestions and encouragement. Restrictions will increase our
chances of winning the war. People should not be surprised to see them, although their promulgation
may come as a shock.

Likewise, people coming together to do business would prolong and exacerbate the epidemic. The
more businesses that close, the more success we're likely to have against the disease. In addition, the
fact that closings reduce the spread should alleviate the flow of patients to doctors and hospitals,
improving the health system's ability to help sufferers. But, of course, the impact on individuals and
the economy will be painful.

Unavoidable Pain

The news in the near term is unlikely to be good; instead it'll probably include:

 Business closures
 Job losses
 Supply-chain disruption
 Shortages of life's necessities, stemming from reduced production and distribution
 difficulties
 Challenges to the health system

Many businesses have been ordered to close (e.g., restaurants and bars). Some have seen their
revenues evaporate (e.g., airlines, hotels and theaters). All of these things will cause job losses, with
a particularly heavy impact on lower-income workers.

On March 17, Treasury Secretary Mnuchin warned that failure of the government to take appropriate
action could take the U.S. unemployment rate to nearly 20% (by way of comparison, it reached 25%
in 1933, during the Great Depression, and hit 10% as a result of the Global Financial Crisis).
Regardless of the action taken, it seems sure to rise substantially from the 50-year low of 3.5%.

In recent years observers have made a big thing out of the fact that a large percentage of Americans
would be unable to respond to a $400 emergency. There's some disagreement as to whether it's true,
but clearly many people don't have much money in the bank. Where will they get money to buy
essentials if they lose their jobs? The government is highly likely to distribute cash, but the speed
and adequacy remain to be seen.

In coming weeks we are likely to see over-taxed hospitals; shortages of beds, ventilators and
supplies; triage of care based on patients' age and health; infection among health professionals; and
rising numbers of fatalities. There's no question that the health system is underprepared; the
question is how much preparedness can be improved. I find it hard to believe the short-term news
will be good.

In all these ways and more, the early news is bound to be bad. I think that's indisputable. The
only good news in this regard would be if it doesn't reach the levels people expect and fear.

Fiscal and Monetary Actions

 The Fed has cut the short-term interest rate to zero - including a record emergency cut of 100
 basis points on Sunday, March 15 - but unfortunately the total reduction has been only 150
 basis points, whereas past rate-cut programs have amounted to roughly 500 basis points.

 The Fed and Treasury have taken other extraordinary actions to aid market functioning and
 financial system liquidity. The commercial paper market will be supported. Tax holidays
 and asset purchases are possible.

 Banks are likely to be hard-hit as a result of borrowers' defaults or moratoria on customers'
 payments. Thus we're highly likely to see steps designed to bolster the solvency of financial
 institutions and the availability of credit. Since banks need equity, dividends could be
 prohibited/discouraged.

Economists and forecasters are still plentiful - the challenging environment hasn't created a shortage
there - and each one has an opinion. I never know which ones are right, but I find myself drawn to
the views of Conrad DeQuadros of Brean Capital:

 In addition to Sunday's actions [cutting rates and initiating asset purchases], the
 alphabet soup of liquidity facilities is back with the relaunch of the Commercial
 Paper Funding Facility and the Primary Dealer Credit Facility yesterday. With the
 PDCF, dealers can even pledge equities to the Fed, with only a 16% haircut, and
 receive a 90-day loan at 0.25%. Non-investment grade corporate debt gets a 20%
 haircut.

 We also have continued actions by the Fed to encourage discount window loans. A
 key difference between now and 2008 is the speed with which the Fed is launching
 these facilities. In 2008, the PDCF was rolled out in March, the CPFF in October,
 and the first round of Large-Scale Asset Purchases in November. In this episode, we
 have rates slashed to the zero-lower bound, massive asset purchases, discount
 window actions (including regulatory guidance), the CPFF, the PDCF - all in a

 matter of days. The speed with which COVID-19 events are unfolding is astonishing,
 but so is the speed of the Fed's response to financial strains.

 The Fed is in "whatever it takes" mode. Fiscal authorities will likely follow suit
 (especially when next week's unemployment claims reading is a multiple of the
 highest reading we have ever seen in the past). The ECB joined the parade tonight.

All these are appropriate actions. Hopefully we'll see benefits from them and more. The Fed
and Treasury will do everything they think might help. Clearly there's little interest in
abstaining simply because expenditures will add to the national deficit and debt.

However, it's unfortunate that there was no appetite for refraining from stimulus and restocking the
tool kit during the period of prosperity that prevailed in recent years. No one knows whether that
failure will inhibit the monetary and fiscal response. But I wish (for example) that we were cutting
short rates from 5.0%, not 1.5%.

Market Behavior

A few observations regarding the markets:

It's easy to say that something approaching panic is present in the markets. We've seen record
percentage declines several times within the last month (exceeded since 1940 only by Black Monday
- October 19, 1987 - when the S&P 500 declined by 20.4% in a day). This week and last included
down days as follows: -7.6%, -9.5%, -12.0% and -5.2% yesterday. These are enormous losses.

However, it's worth noting that every one of those declines was followed by similar gains: +4.9%,
+9.3% and +6.0% (before a small gain today). Given that almost all of the biggest down days in the
last 80 years were followed by up days, so far the strategy of "buy the dips" has continued to be in
favor. That's fine as far as it goes, but it has nothing to do with fundamental improvement. What
this tells me is that optimism still hasn't been entirely eradicated and replaced by capitulation.
Typically, the bottom is reached only when optimism is nowhere to be found.

On the other hand, there has been a rush to cash. Both long positions and short positions have been
closed out - a sure sign of chaos and uncertainty. Cash in money market funds has increased
substantially. This doesn't tell us anything about fundamentals, but the outlook for eventual market
performance is improved:

 the more people have sold,
 the less they have left to sell, and
 the more cash they have with which to buy when they turn less pessimistic.

This is a good time to point out that, thus far in this episode, there's additional evidence that
there's no such thing in the investment world as a sure thing, magic potion or silver bullet:

 I find it interesting that the price of gold - historically considered the greatest source of
 protection again tough times - has declined several percent over the last month. Here's the

 headline of a story from a gold site: "Gold prices sharply down as dread pervasive in
 marketplace." It wasn't supposed to work that way.
 Bitcoin, which partisans had said would serve as a safe harbor in times of crisis, may be
 down more than any other "asset class." (I apply that term to Bitcoin advisedly.) It's lost
 47.6% over the last month, from $10,188 to $5,337.
 Risk-parity funds, which were designed to do well in most environments, experienced
 double-digit losses in February.
 Even the world's greatest algorithmic fund - which sports a fabulous long-term record - is
 reported to have suffered a loss of several percent last month.

Of course this is a short, chaotic period, but we can say that so far, the evidence of a miracle
investment is lacking. Nothing new here.

To wrap up, I'll share some color from Justin Quaglia, one of our debt traders:

 After two days of a basically stalled, but stressed market, we "finally had the rubber
 band snap." Forced sellers (needing to sell for immediate cash flow needs) brought
 the market lower in a hurry. We opened 3-5 points lower, and the Street was again
 hesitant to take risk (from their couch/kitchen table/living room/weekend house) so
 risk only transferred into a bid from another market participant. Clearing levels
 quickly became 6-8 points lower.

 One of the brokers said it was flat-out mayhem . . . and he was working from home!
 Imagine what an actual trading floor would have been like. It basically became
 "duck and cover" if you were a market maker, as their risk-taking abilities are being
 hindered by the C-suite. Beside immediate needs, investors sold to prepare for
 quarter-end redemptions, FX movements, and to fund margin calls. Short settlements
 were rampant, and larger blocks cleared in high-quality BB credits. Most people
 don't even want to guess what the mark is on CCC risk. This ultimately ended up
 being the first real day of panic we have seen in a long time.

We're never happy to have the events that bring on chaos, and especially not the ones that are
underway today. But it's sentiment like Justin describes above that fuels the emotional selling that
allows us to access the greatest bargains.

Oaktree Asset Classes

To give you an indication of what has happened to date in U.S. credit, I'm going to provide data on
prices, yields and performance as of yesterday's close. This information will be to be out of date by
the time it reaches you, but hopefully it will still be useful.

 Average Average Average Performance
 (As of the close, March 18) Price Yield Yield Spread Feb 19-Mar 18

Yields and yield spreads have increased significantly (which is another way of saying there's been a
lot of damage done). The price declines have been substantial, but the increase in yield for each
point of price decline tends to put on the brakes. A yield of 9%, 10% or 12% is impressive in a
world of 1% Treasurys, and thus tends to slow the fall. Declines to date of 15-20% for the bond and
loan indices have brought substantial losses to holders, but also vastly improved opportunities for
new investment.

 * * *

What do we know? Not much other than the fact that asset prices are well down, asset holders'
ability to hold coolly is evaporating, and motivated selling is picking up. I'll sum up my views
simply - since there's nothing sophisticated to say:

 "The bottom" is the day before the recovery begins. Thus it's absolutely impossible to
 know when the bottom has been reached . . . ever. Oaktree explicitly rejects the notion
 of waiting for the bottom; we buy when we can access value cheap.

 Even though there's no way to say the bottom is at hand, the conditions that make
 bargains available certainly are materializing.

 Given the price drops and selling we've seen so far, I believe this is a good time to
 invest, although of course it may prove not have been the best time.

 No one can argue that you should spend all your money today . . . but equally, no one
 can argue that you shouldn't spend any.

 The more you want to garner potential gains and don't mind mark-to-market losses, the
 more you should invest here. On the other hand, the more you care about protecting
 against interim markdowns and are able to live with missing opportunities for profit,
 the less you should invest.

But is there really an argument for not investing at all? In my opinion, the fact that we're not
necessarily at "the bottom" isn't such an argument.


Memo: Which Way Now?.

In the last six weeks the markets have seen the best of times and the worst of times:

 • From February 19 to March 23, the U.S. stock market saw the quickest meltdown in history,
 for a loss of 33.9% on the S&P 500. Then its 17.5% gain from Tuesday through Thursday of
 last week made for the best three-day stretch since the 1930s.

 • Of the 21 trading days between February 27 and March 27, a total of 18 days saw moves in
 the S&P 500 of more than 2%: eleven down and seven up. They included the biggest daily
 percentage gain since 1933 and the second-biggest percentage loss since 1940 (exceeded only
 by Black Monday in 1987).

 • From March 9 through March 20, issuing a new investment grade bond seemed
 inconceivable. Then, as our trader Justin Quaglia points out, last week's news of the
 government's rescue package enabled 49 companies to issue $107 billion of IG bonds. That
 made it the biggest week for issuance on record; part of the biggest month on record ($213
 billion from 106 issuers); and part of the biggest quarter on record ($473 billion, up 40%
 from the first quarter of 2019). In fact, there was more issuance last week than in nine of the

 • Finally, on March 26, Justin wrote, "It's hard to believe I used the words 'panic' and
 'FOMO' within two weeks of each other."

Looking at the above, it's important to note the degree to which people (and thus markets) seem to
think long-term phenomena can change in the short run.

It's common knowledge that the coronavirus is still gaining ground in the U.S. and elsewhere; the
economy is destined for a serious recession; leveraged entities have to worry about their sources of
loans and liquidity; and the price of oil is among the very lowest since the 1973 OPEC embargo. But
the prices of financial assets have moved down as well: appropriately, too much or too little? In
other words, we have to consider the outlook and the appropriateness of value, in the context of
unprecedented uncertainty and the total absence of guidance from analogies to the past.

There's no doubt about the ability of the government's and the Fed's massive cash injections to make
things better in the short run, and certainly the market has treated them as sure winners. But I think
it's important to take time out for a serious discussion of possible scenarios. Are this past week's
remedies certain to work? Are the prior week's negatives really erased? Which will win in the
short and intermediate term: the disease, economic ramifications or Fed/Treasury actions? To
try to think about these things in a responsible way, I've decided to try cataloging the optimistic and
pessimistic elements.

The Positive Case

No one thinks things are good right now, but the optimist's view is built around the early cessation of
bad news and the arrival of better news in the not-too-distant future. Here are the components. (As
you know, I usually avoid using macro forecasts and never make my own. I will borrow from others
for the purposes of exposition in this memo, but not because I have reason to believe they're correct):

 • The earliest countries to contract the virus have shown good progress. The reported data on
 their new cases has flattened, and in South Korea, more people are being released from the
 hospitals than are entering. Hermann Dambach, head of our Frankfurt office, reports that the
 numbers are improving in Italy, Germany and Austria.

 • Every forecast I've seen assumes the virus will be brought under control within three
 months or so. The curve is flattened and then turned downward. The virus is contained and
 then eliminated.

 o Testing identifies those infected, and isolation/quarantine keeps them from infecting
 others.
 o Herd immunity develops, reducing the number of people capable of transmitting the
 disease.
 o Warmer weather causes the disease to recede.
 o Treatments are found that aid recovery.
 o A vaccine is developed.

 • The negative impact of the disease on the economy will be sharp but brief. The term "V-
 shaped" dominates most forecasts, both between Q2 and H2 and between 2020 and 2021.
 Thus, for example, one forecaster who has the earnings of the S&P 500 companies down
 120% in Q2 thinks they may rise roughly 80+% in Q3 on a quarter-over-quarter basis (that is,
 to down just 20% from 2019) and then rise by a further 50% in Q4. And after a decline of
 33% in 2020, earnings will rise by 55% in 2021 and exceed what they were in 2019.

 • Telling people to stay home - and thus causing businesses to close - is the economic
 equivalent of putting a patient into a coma to facilitate curing a serious disease. The
 government will provide life support to the economy during the coma and bring the
 patient out of the coma after the cure has been effected.

 The economic recovery will be abetted by better news about the disease, but the
 improvement will mainly be the result of the success of the Fed/Treasury package of rescue
 and stimulus. These organizations have announced unprecedented expenditures and have
 indicated that they'll do whatever else it takes. Actions that were taken after months of
 deliberation in the Global Financial Crisis have been rolled out in the early weeks of the
 current episode. Further steps are likely to include everything anyone can think of and be
 unconstrained as to amount.

 • The banks are much less vulnerable than they were during the Global Financial Crisis, with
 only a third of the leverage. Thus concerns for the health of the overall financial system are
 greatly reduced.

 • The U.S.'s effective private sector will supplement the public health efforts of government,
 producing massive amounts of supplies and equipment, and developing testing, treatments
 and vaccines.

 • The price declines of securities will draw in buyers, and ample capital is available in the form
 of dry powder in funds.

When I read the more positive views regarding the current episode, I can't help but think back to my
favorite newspaper headline, which included the phrase "Bankers Optimistic." Usually the case,
perhaps, but it's worth noting that the story in question was published on October 30, 1929, reporting
on the prior day's stock market crash. On that day of optimism, the Great Depression still had eleven
years to run.

The Negative Case

I always say we have to be aware of and open about our biases. I admit to mine: I'm more of a
worrier than a dreamer. Maybe that's what made me a better credit analyst than equity analyst.
On average I may have been more defensive than was necessary (although somehow I was able to
shift to aggressive action when crisis lows were reached during my career). Thus it shouldn't come
as a surprise today that my list of cons is longer than my pros (and I will elaborate on them at greater
length).

 • I'm very worried about the outlook for the disease, especially in the U.S. For a long
 time, the response consisted of suggestions or advice, not orders and rules. I was particularly
 troubled last weekend by pictures of college kids on the beach during spring break, from
 which they would return to their communities. The success of other countries in slowing the
 disease has been a function of widespread social distancing, testing and temperature-taking to
 identify those who are infected, and quarantining them from everyone else. The U.S. is
 behind in all these regards. Testing is rarely available, mass temperature-taking is non-
 existent, and people wonder whether large-scale quarantining is legal.

 o The total number of cases in the U.S. has surpassed both China's and Italy's and is
 still rising rapidly (and is likely understated due to under-testing).
 o The number of deaths doubled from 1,000 to 2,000 between Thursday and Saturday.
 o From a recent tweet by Scott Gottlieb, MD, former commissioner of the FDA: "I'm
 worried about emerging situations in New Orleans, Dallas, Atlanta, Miami, Detroit,
 Chicago, Philadelphia, among others. In China no province outside Hubei ever had
 more than 1,500 cases. In U.S. 11 states already hit that total. Our epidemic is likely
 to be national in scope."
 o The U.S. is under-equipped to respond in terms of hospitals, beds, ventilators and
 supplies. Under-protected doctors, nurses and first responders are at risk.

 I'm concerned that the number of cases and deaths will continue to rise as long as we fail to
 emulate the successful countries' actions. The health system will be overwhelmed. Triage
 decisions - including who lives and who dies - will have to be made. There will be a point
 where there doesn't seem to be an end in sight. I'm afraid the headlines are going to get
 much uglier in this regard.

 • The economy will contract at a record rate. Many millions will be thrown out of work.
 People will be unable to patronize businesses. Not only will workers miss paychecks and
 businesses miss revenues, but businesses' physical output will tail off, meaning essentials
 like food may run short. Last week, 3.3 million new unemployment claims were filed, versus
 the previous week's 282,000 and the weekly record of 695,000. Prior to the government's
 actions, expectations included the following:

 o unemployment would return to 8-10%, and citizens would soon run short of cash;
 o businesses would close;
 o second-quarter GDP would decline from the year-ago level by 15-30% (versus a
 decline of 10% in the first quarter of 1958, the worst quarter in history);
 o some forecasters said the combined earnings of the S&P 500 companies would
 decline 10% in the second quarter, but that seems like a ridiculously small decline.
 At the other end of the spectrum, I've seen a prediction that S&P earnings
 would decline by 120% (that's right: in total, the 500 companies would shift
 from profits to losses).

 Government payments plus augmented unemployment insurance will replace paychecks for
 many workers, and aid to businesses will replace some of their lost revenues. But how long
 will it take to get these funds to recipients? How many should-be recipients will be missed?
 For how long will the aid continue? ($3,400 to a family of four won't last long.) What will it
 take to bring the economy back to life after it's been in a deep freeze? How fast will it
 recover? In other words, is a V-shaped recovery a realistic expectation?

 • It will be very challenging to resolve the conflict between social isolation and economic
 recovery. How will we know whether the disease merits the cure? The longer people
 remain at home, the more difficult it will be to bring the economy back to life. But the
 sooner they return to work and other activities, the harder it will be to get the disease under
 control.

 First, the growth in the number of new cases each day has to be reduced. Next, the number
 of new cases has to begin to decline from one day to the next (that is, the growth rate has to
 turn negative). Then new cases have to stop appearing each day. (Of course, we'll need
 increased testing and mandatory quarantining for these things to occur.) As long as there are
 new cases each day, there are people who are infectious. If we send them back into the world
 and into contact with others, the disease will persist and spread. And if we seize the
 opportunity provided by a decline in the number of new cases to resume economic
 activity, we risk a rebound in the rate of infection.

 • For the most part, we have companies whose revenues are down and companies whose
 revenues are gone. They can reduce their expenses, but because many of them are fixed (like
 rent), they can't reduce expenses as fast as revenues decline. That's why second-quarter
 profits will shrink, dry up or turn negative. Revenues may come back relatively soon for
 some industries (like entertainment), but less rapidly for others (like cruise lines).

 • Many companies went into this episode highly leveraged. Managements took advantage of
 the low interest rates and generous capital market to issue debt, and some did stock buybacks,

 reducing their share count and increasing their earnings per share (and perhaps their
 executive compensation). The result of either or both is to increase the ratio of debt to
 equity. The more debt a company has relative to its equity, the higher the return on equity
 will be in good times . . . but also the lower the return on equity (or the larger the losses) in
 bad times, and the less likely it is to survive tough times. Corporate leverage complicates
 the issue of lost revenues and profits. Thus we expect to see rising defaults in the months
 ahead.

 • Likewise, in recent years, the generous capital market conditions and the search for return in
 a low-interest-rate world caused the formation of leveraged investment entities. As with
 leveraged companies, debt increased their expected returns but also their vulnerability. Thus
 I believe we're likely to see defaults on the part of leveraged entities, based on price
 markdowns, ratings downgrades and perhaps defaults on their portfolio assets;
 increased "haircuts" on the part of lenders (i.e., reduced amounts loaned against a
 dollar of collateral); and margin calls, portfolio liquidations and forced selling.

 In the Global Financial Crisis, leveraged investment vehicles like Collateralized Mortgage
 Obligations and Collateralized Debt Obligations melted down, bringing losses to the banks
 that held their junior debt and equity. The systemic importance of the banks necessitated
 their bailouts (the resentment of which contributed greatly to today's populism). This time,
 leveraged securitizations are less pervasive in the financial system, and their risk capital
 wasn't supplied by banks (thanks to the Volcker Rule), but mostly by non-bank lenders and
 funds. Thus I feel government bailouts are unlikely to be made available to them. (As an
 aside, it's not that the people who structured these leveraged entities erred. They merely
 failed to include an episode like the current one among the scenarios they modeled. How
 could they? If every business decision had to be made in contemplation of a pandemic, few
 deals would take place.)

 • Finally, in addition to the disease and its economic repercussions, we have one more
 important element: oil. Due to a confluence of reduced consumption and a price war
 between Saudi Arabia and Russia, the price of oil has fallen from $61 per barrel at
 year-end to $19 today. The price of oil was only slightly lower immediately before the
 OPEC embargo in 1973, and in the 47 years since then it has only been lower on two brief
 occasions. While many consumers, companies and countries benefit from lower oil prices,
 there are serious repercussions for others:

 o Big losses for oil-producing companies and countries.
 o Job losses: the oil and gas industry directly provides more than 5% of American jobs
 (and more indirectly), and it contributed greatly to the decline of unemployment since
 the GFC.
 o A significant decline in the industry's capital investment, which recently has
 accounted for a meaningful share of the U.S.'s total.
 o Production cuts, since consumption is down and crude/product storage capacity is
 running out.
 o The damage to oil reservoirs that results when production is reduced or halted.
 o A reduction in American oil independence.

As recounted above, the negative case encompasses rising numbers of infections and deaths,
unbearable strain on the healthcare system, job losses in the many millions, widespread business
losses and mounting defaults. If these things arise, investors are likely to shift from the optimism of
last week to the pessimism that was prevalent in the rest of March. Contributing factors may include:

 o negative psychology surrounding the combination of threats to the economy and life
 itself,
 o fear of more, and
 o a very negative wealth effect that depresses spending and investing.

The Government Programs

Last week the government enacted the CARES (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security)
Act, with roughly $2 trillion of rescue and support. At the same time, the Fed will spend several
trillion more to provide liquidity and buttress the financial system, and it has "committed to using its
full range of tools." I will dispense with listing all the provisions of the CARES Act, and merely
note that J.P. Morgan's description runs to eight pages. And as mentioned above, the list of
ingredients and their magnitude are likely to grow.

I'll share a useful description of the economic situation and the government response from Conrad
DeQuadros of Brean Capital, an economist I've taken to quoting:

 The CARES Act should not be thought of as fiscal stimulus but as an economic
 stabilization package. The collapse of economic activity in March 2020 is not a
 normal cyclical recession but is the result of a mandated "time out" of individuals and
 businesses by the government. Many of the provisions of the Act are designed to
 prevent the private sector from unraveling so that when the containment of the virus
 permits shutdowns to be lifted, activity can bounce back. . . .

 There is no avoiding recession because the output of airlines, hotels, restaurants,
 movie theaters, etc. is lost. However, these programs will support businesses so that
 when the virus permits the resumption of activity, we can see a sharp rebound in
 activity. Skilled labor was a scarce resource just one month ago and the key is to
 keep that labor and businesses connected. The support for businesses is really
 support for labor because if companies cannot pay workers from cash flows, the
 layoff figures will dwarf the numbers suggested by the latest jobless claims data.

 How effective will the measures be? In the latest quarter, labor compensation was
 $2.9 trillion (actual, non-annualized) and, to consider a purely illustrative number, a
 20% (actual) drop in labor incomes amounts to $577 billion, which is about the
 magnitude of direct income support to households without considering the impact of
 support for businesses, which will head off a steeper decline in labor incomes. The
 fiscal package will unlock upward of $4 trillion of capital market support programs
 from the Fed. In addition there are the funds to help combat the spread of the virus
 and the sooner the virus can be contained, the more lives will be saved and the sooner
 America can get back to work. After a few months of being housebound, we suspect
 there will be plenty of pent up demand. The fiscal deficit in 2020 could be of the
 magnitude of $2.5 trillion but if the package fails, the recession would be longer and

 deeper and the fiscal cost would be greater.

As always, I don't know which economists are right, but I'm happy to go with Conrad's summation.

Moving on from understanding the actions to date, I want to talk about the outlook for this effort.
The government seems able, as Conrad says, to support and stabilize the economy. In my simplistic
view, I imagine it can print enough checks to replace every American worker's lost wages and
every business's lost revenues. In other words, it can "simulate" the effect of the economy on
incomes. But I have two questions: is that okay, and is it enough?

First of all, as I mentioned above, we actually need the output of workers and businesses. If all
businesses shut down, we won't have the things we need. These days, for example, people are
counting on grocery deliveries and take-out food. But does anyone wonder where food comes from
and how it reaches us? The Treasury can make up for people's lost wages, but people need the
things wages buy. So replacing lost wages and revenues will not be enough for long: the
economy has to produce goods and services.

Second, let's assume the government writes checks to replace wages and revenues forever, and that
the economy continues to produce at a minimal but sufficient level, so the things we need
materialize. What will be the long-term effect? As with oil reservoirs, what will be the impact of
long-term inactivity on the ability of the economy to produce? How long will it take to restart
the economy and bring it back to its previous level of functioning?

Lastly, what would be the effect of the Treasury continuing to add trillions of dollars each
quarter to the deficit (which was running at $1 trillion even before the virus hit) and of the Fed
continuing to pump trillions more into the monetary system? Last June, in my memo This Time
It's Different, I discussed Modern Monetary Theory, which - to simplify - says federal deficits and
debt don't matter. It's no longer just a theory; we have to deal with its implications now:

 • What would be the effect of the above on the value of the dollar, and thus on the dollar's
 status as the world's reserve currency? (Of course, in this environment, other countries are
 likely to behave much the same as we do, meaning the dollar may not be debased relative
 to other currencies.)

 • Might a reduction of the dollar's reserve-currency status make it harder for us to finance our
 deficits and raise the interest rates we have to pay to do so?

 • Might money-printing to that degree bring on an increase in inflation?

 • Might a supply shock stemming from reduced global output of raw materials and
 finished goods add to the increase in inflation? The factors that create inflation are truly
 mysterious, but these certainly seem like reasonable candidates, especially when combined.

Possibly without serious vetting and a conscious decision to adopt it, Modern Monetary Theory is
here. Whether we like it or not, we'll get to see its impact much quicker than I had thought. (And
remember, 100% of the "top scholars" polled by The University of Chicago Booth School of
Business disagreed with some of MMT's claims).

Summing Up

Rather than reinvent the wheel - and to show you how others are viewing the situation (albeit in
ways that parallel my view) - I'm going to share the workload by recycling the conclusion from a
note I received from Jason Klein, CIO of Memorial Sloan Kettering:

 The bull case from here seems to be that monetary policy will work, fiscal policy will
 kick-in, valuations have reset, society will follow effective healthcare policies (e.g.,
 social distancing) that will be effective, the real economy will adapt, and geopolitics
 will remain subdued. The bear market seems to be the flip side of each issue, and has
 the potential to be much darker as the prospects of a hot war with China, or even Iran,
 seem rather ominous. Across all recent events, I find it in some ways most
 interesting that Saudi Arabia chose to instigate a supply shock targeting U.S. shale at
 a moment when the demand for U.S. energy was already reeling from the demand-
 side shock from COVID-19 restrictions. It highlights the unpredictability of
 events. As you've said, nobody knows.

Richard Masson, my Oaktree co-founder and resident scold, might say Twitter isn't a worthy source,
but nevertheless I want to include a concise summary tweeted by @yourMTLbroker:

 Bull case: everything opens in 6 weeks. The unemployed can go back to old jobs or
 as true Americans, bootstrap. Economy back to normal within 6 months. 2T $ in PE
 dry powder, low gas prices and 0% interest rates pour fuel onto on the economy. The
 roaring 20's mean the 2020's now.

 Bear case: Unemployment goes to 20%+. Everything does NOT go back to normal
 before at least a year or two, and in the meantime, there is a huge demand shock. The
 effects of the lockdown on businesses as well as the oil shock create depression-like
 conditions.

In the Global Financial Crisis, I worried about a downward cascade of financial news, and about the
implications for the economy of serial bankruptcies among financial institutions. But everyday life
was unchanged from what it had been, and there was no obvious threat to life and limb.

Today the range of negative outcomes seems much wider, as described above. Social isolation,
disease and death, economic contraction, enormous reliance on government action, and
uncertainty about the long-term effects are all with us, and the main questions surround how
far they will go.

Nevertheless, the market prices of assets have responded to the events and outlook (in a very micro
sense, I feel last week's bounce reflected too much optimism, but that's me). I would say assets were
priced fairly on Friday for the optimistic case but didn't give enough scope for the possibility of
worsening news. Thus my reaction to all the above is to expect asset prices to decline. You may or
may not feel there's still time to increase defensiveness ahead of potentially negative
developments. But the most important thing is to be ready to respond to and take advantage of
declines.

The world will be back to normal someday, although today it seems unlikely to end up unchanged.
What matters most - in terms of both health and finances - is how we do in the interim. Stay
safe!


Memo: Calibrating.

I set a personal record by writing four memos in the month of March, responding to the rapidly
unfolding coronavirus crisis. The task was made easier by the dearth of available data, meaning I
was able to proceed without doing much research, mostly providing personal views.

In the first of the four memos, Nobody Knows II, I described the distinction made by Harvard
epidemiologist Marc Lipsitch. He said there are (a) facts, (b) informed extrapolations from analogies
to other viruses and (c) opinion or speculation. At that point, I thought the scientists were trying to
make informed inferences, and there wasn't enough data regarding the novel coronavirus to enable
them to turn those inferences into facts. I also noted that anything a non-scientist said was highly
likely to be a guess. In that vein, I wrote the following to an Oaktree colleague last week: "These
days everyone has the same data regarding the present and the same ignorance regarding the
future." That pretty much sums up the state of affairs.

Most of what we have today is opinion, and much of it tilts either optimistic or pessimistic. The gulf
in between is massive: if you read just the optimistic pieces, you'd think the virus will soon be
eradicated and the economy brought back to health, and if you read just the negative ones, you'd
think we're all done for.

In my opinion, the difference between most people's positive and negative views is likely to stem
largely from their innate biases, and thus the data points they choose to overweight. Future scenarios
comprise a large number of variables: today even more than usual. It's relatively easy to build a
spreadsheet listing the many things that will contribute to the future and rate them as likely to turn
out well or poorly. But merely toting up the plusses and minuses won't tell you whether the
future will be favorable or unfavorable. The essential element is figuring out which ones will
be most influential. That's often where optimistic or pessimistic biases come in. The optimist
takes cheer from the favorable outlook for the positive data points, and the pessimist is depressed by
the unpleasant possibilities for the negative ones . . . even if they're both working from the same
underlying spreadsheet in terms of elements and ratings.

There's rarely such a thing as "knowing the future." But usually the future will be mostly like the
past. This time, I think we can agree that the near-term future isn't likely to look much like it did a
year ago. As I wrote last week in Which Way Now?, we have to consider our situation "in the
context of unprecedented uncertainty and the total absence of guidance from analogies to the
past."

Whereas the future is always uncertain, today the uncertainty is much greater than usual: the
probability distribution governing future events is much wider and the tails much fatter. In fact, there
are potential negatives (and perhaps positives) that few living people have faced before. Most of
what we have is subjective opinion and interpretation.

I don't think I'm likely to have superior knowledge regarding the outlook for the virus, its impact on
the economy, the success of Fed/government actions or the direction of oil prices. I organized and
discussed the possibilities for each of these things in the March memos, but I'm unlikely to be a
better predictor than anyone else.

I do, however, hope to help by discussing how you might think about your behavior in the
current context. That's my subject today. But before I end with the conclusion I've reached, I want
to summarize the relevant statements from the March memos. (As you'll see, I wrote two memos in
mid-March that only went to Oaktree clients, although one was made available on our website a few
days later.) Here we go (emphasis in the originals):

Nobody Knows II - March 3

We were still early in the crisis at this time, with just a handful of cases of the disease reported in North
America. We were also early in the process of economic decline and market reaction. In fact, the S&P
500 was only down 13% from its level on February 19. In this first memo of the crisis, I struck a
number of themes I would return to in the following weeks:

 These days, people have been asking me whether this is the time to buy. My answer
 is more nuanced: it's probably a time to buy. There can be no unique time to buy that
 we can identify. The only thing we can be sure of today is that stock prices, for
 example, are a lot lower in the absolute than they were two weeks ago.

 Buy, sell or hold? I think it's okay to do some buying, because things are cheaper.
 But there's no logical argument for spending all your cash, given that we have no
 idea how negative future events will be. What I would do is figure out how much
 you'll want to have invested by the time the bottom is reached - whenever that is -
 and spend part of it today. Stocks may turn around and head north, and you'll be
 glad you bought some. Or they may continue down, in which case you'll have
 money left (and hopefully the nerve) to buy more. That's life for people who
 accept that they don't know what the future holds.

 But no one can tell you this is the time to buy. Nobody knows.

An Update - March 12 (to Oaktree clients only)

A week and a half later, after we cancelled the Oaktree client conference and livestreamed instead,
after Nancy and I had begun the social distancing that is still going on full-bore, and with the S&P
500 down 29%, I emphasized a contrarian theme, concluding that the damage done had created
pronounced opportunities.

 As always, it's important to be conscious of the investment environment and behave
 like a contrarian. For years, investors thought conditions were good, and we at
 Oaktree believed that consequently, prices were high and markets were characterized
 by risky behavior. That's what made us cautious. Now the "flawless decade" is
 certainly over, and asset prices have been cut. The great contrarian, Warren Buffett is

 famous for saying he likes hamburgers, and when hamburgers go on sale, he eats
 more hamburgers.

 My roughly quarterly memos pale when compared to the output of Doug Kass, who
 writes at least daily. His March 11 note had a terrific title: "When the Time Comes to
 Buy, You Won't Want To." The best time to buy generally comes when nobody else
 will; other people's unwillingness to buy tends to make securities cheap. But the
 factors that render others averse to buying will affect you, too. The contrarian may
 push through those feelings and buy anyway, even though it's not easy. As I put it,
 "All great investments begin in discomfort." One thing we know is that there's
 great discomfort today.

Latest Update - to clients March 19, on website March 24

This memo was issued with the S&P 500 down 29% and within a few days of the low (down 34%)
that would be reached on March 23. The panic we were observing, and the great purchases we made
that week, convinced me to take a firmer tone in arguing for buying. I took the position that it would
be a mistake to wait for an ascertainable bottom before doing so.

 What do we know? Not much other than the fact that asset prices are well down,
 asset holders' ability to hold coolly is evaporating, and motivated selling is picking
 up. I'll sum up my views simply - since there's nothing sophisticated to say:

 • "The bottom" is the day before the recovery begins. Thus it's absolutely
 impossible to know when the bottom has been reached . . . ever. Oaktree
 explicitly rejects the notion of waiting for the bottom; we buy when we can
 access value cheap.
 • Even though there's no way to say the bottom is at hand, the conditions that
 make bargains available certainly are materializing.
 • Given the price drops and selling we've seen so far, I believe this is a good time
 to invest, although of course it may prove not to have been the best time.
 • No one can argue that you should spend all your money today . . . but equally, no
 one can argue that you shouldn't spend any.
 • The more you want to garner potential gains and don't mind mark-to-market
 losses, the more you should invest here. On the other hand, the more you care
 about protecting against interim markdowns and are able to live with missing
 opportunities for profit, the less you should invest.

 But is there really an argument for not investing at all? In my opinion, the fact that
 we're not necessarily at "the bottom" isn't such an argument.

Which Way Now? - March 31

Word of the Fed/Treasury response to the economic difficulty emerged on March 24 and was
immediately accepted as likely to succeed. By the time the program was enacted, the stock market

had experienced a rally on March 24-26 that delivered the best three-day gain since the 1930s,
leaving the S&P 500 down just 24%.

 . . . the market prices of assets have responded to the events and outlook (in a very
 micro sense, I feel last week's bounce reflected too much optimism, but that's me). I
 would say assets were priced fairly on Friday [March 27] for the optimistic case but
 didn't give enough scope for the possibility of worsening news. Thus my reaction to
 all the above is to expect asset prices to decline. You may or may not feel there's
 still time to increase defensiveness ahead of potentially negative developments.
 But the most important thing is to be ready to respond to and take advantage of
 declines.

My message wasn't uniform across the four memos, but there were some common threads.

 • My observations waxed and waned, in particular as security prices did.
 • I never urged selling, as I thought a fair bit of the damage had been done. In other words, it
 was probably too late to make portfolios less risky.
 • I talked about the reasonableness of buying - to varying degrees - primarily in response to
 the extent securities had cheapened.
 • I never said it was the time to buy (or that it wasn't). I urged an incremental approach, not
 all-in or all-out.
 • The most consistent observation was probably that not buying anything at the new low
 prices would be a mistake.

The vagueness and variation of the message summarized above make it less than concrete and
perhaps less than satisfying for someone who's looking for unequivocal advice. In my opinion,
however, there's simply no room for certainty in investing, and today more so than usual.

Portfolio Positioning

One of the benefits I derive from writing my memos is that the more I work on a memo about
something, the more it comes into focus. Thus the four March memos gave me a great opportunity to
ponder what the events imply for investment behavior. I'm glad to say I've reached a conclusion on
that subject. I feel strongly that it's right . . . and I fully expect to amend it in the future. (To set the
scene, the next few paragraphs will be repeat things I've said in the past.)

In recent years I've become more and more convinced that the fund manager's most important job
for the intermediate term isn't to decide the allocation of capital between stocks versus bonds; U.S.
versus foreign; developed markets versus emerging; large-cap versus small-cap; high-quality versus
low-quality; or growth versus value. And it isn't choosing among strategies, funds and managers.
The most important job is to strike the appropriate balance between offense and defense.
Those other things won't help much if you get offense/defense wrong. And if you get offense/
defense right, those other things will take care of themselves.

One way to think about the balance between offense and defense is to consider the "twin risks"
investors face every day: the risk of losing money and the risk of missing opportunity. At least
in theory, you can eliminate either one but not both. Moreover, eliminating one exposes you entirely
to the other. Thus we tend to compromise or balance the two risks, and every individual investor or
institution should develop a view as to what their normal balance between the two should be.

Next, investors might consider trying to calibrate their balance over time in response to conditions in
the environment - thus the title of this memo:

 • The more propitious the environment - the more prudently other investors are behaving, the
 better the outlook for earnings, and the lower security prices are relative to intrinsic value or
 "fundamentals" - the more an investor might want to shift toward offense.
 • On the other hand, the more precarious the environment - the more others are embracing
 risk, the more headwinds to profits there are, and the higher valuations are - the more an
 investor might choose to emphasize defense.

In recent years, it's been my view that the investment world was marked by the following
characteristics:

 • more uncertainty than usual,
 • extremely low prospective returns,
 • full to high asset prices, and
 • pro-risk behavior on the part of investors reaching for higher returns.

These things told me the world was a risky, low-return place, and for that reason Oaktree's
mantra has been "move forward, but with caution." We've generally been fully invested, but
with even more than our usual caution. We made a decision to overweight defense, and there were
years in which higher risk produced higher returns, and we paid a price for being cautious. We had
no idea what the catalyst would be that turned the risk into loss, and there were no obvious
candidates. But we felt the world was a risky place, exposed to negative developments. Now we
know the catalyst, and now portfolio risk has produced loss. That's the background.

As described above, I felt the uncertain, low-return environment called for defense to be over-
weighted relative to offense. Now, however, as opposed to the conditions of 2, 6, 12 or 24 months
ago:

 • the risks in the environment are recognized and largely understood,
 • prospective returns have turned from paltry to attractive (for example, the average yield on
 high yield bonds ex. energy has gone from 31⁄2% to almost 9%),
 • security prices have declined, and
 • investors have been chastened, causing risk-taking to dry up.

Given these new conditions, I no longer feel defense should be favored. Yes, the fundamentals
have deteriorated and may deteriorate further, and the disease makes for risk (remember, I'm the one
who leans toward the negative case). But there's a big difference between a market where no
one can find a flaw and one where people have given up on risk-taking. And there's a big
difference between one that's priced for perfection and one that allows for bad outcomes.

Cautious positioning in recent years has served its purpose. Investors who favored defense over
offense have experienced smaller losses this year, have the satisfaction that comes from relative
outperformance, and are able to spend more of their time looking for bargains than dealing with
legacy problems. Thus, I feel it's a time when previously cautious investors can reduce their
overemphasis on defense and begin to move toward a more neutral position or even toward
offense (depending on how sure they want to be of grasping early opportunities).

I'm not saying the outlook is positive. I'm saying conditions have changed such that caution is
no longer as imperative. With part of the crisis-related losses having already taken place, I'm
somewhat less worried about losing money and somewhat more interested in making sure our clients
participate in gains. My 2018 book, Mastering the Market Cycle, carries the subtitle Getting the
Odds on Your Side. In that vein, I now feel the odds are more in investors' favor or, at a
minimum, somewhat less against them. Portfolios should be calibrated accordingly.

Looking for the Bottom

Before I close, just a word on market bottoms. Some of the most interesting questions in investing
are especially appropriate today: "Since you expect more bad news and feel the markets may fall
further, isn't it premature to do any buying? Shouldn't you wait for the bottom?"

To me, the answer clearly is "no." As mentioned earlier, we never know when we're at the bottom.
A bottom can only be recognized in retrospect: it was the day before the market started to go up. By
definition, we can't know today whether it's been reached, since that's a function of what will
happen tomorrow. Thus, "I'm going to wait for the bottom" is an irrational statement.

If you want, you might choose to say, "I'm going to wait until the bottom has been passed and the
market has started upward." That's more rational. However, number one, you're saying you're
willing to miss the bottom. And number two, one of the reasons for a market to start to rise is that
the sellers' sense of urgency has abated, and along with it the selling pressure. That, in turn, means
(a) the supply for sale shrinks and (b) the buyers' very buying forces the market upward, as it's now
they who are highly motivated. These are the things that make markets rise. So if investors want to
buy, they should buy on the way down. That's when the sellers are feeling the most urgency
and the buyers' buying won't arrest the downward cascade of security prices.

Back in 2008, on the heels of Lehman Brothers' September 15 bankruptcy filing, Bruce Karsh and
his team embarked on an unprecedented program to buy the debt of companies in distress. They
invested an average of roughly $450 million per week over the last 15 weeks of the year, for a total
of nearly $7 billion. Debt prices collapsed throughout that period, and they continued to fall in the
first quarter of 2009 (along with the stock market). But because the hedge funds facing withdrawals
had been gated - and because the leveraged, securitized vehicles that would melt down had all been
liquidated - large amounts ceased to be for sale after year-end. In short, if we hadn't bought in the
fourth quarter, we would have missed our chance.

The old saying goes, "The perfect is the enemy of the good." Likewise, waiting for the bottom can
keep investors from making good purchases. The investor's goal should be to make a large
number of good buys, not just a few perfect ones. Think about your normal behavior. Before

every purchase, do you insist on being sure the thing in question will never be available lower? That
is, that you're buying at the bottom? I doubt it. You probably buy because you think you're getting
a good asset at an attractive price. Isn't that enough? And I trust you sell because you think the
selling price is adequate or more, not because you're convinced the price can never go higher. To
insist on buying only at bottoms and selling only at tops would be paralyzing.

On the contrary, I gave this memo the title Calibrating because of my view that a portfolio's
positioning should change over time in response to what's going on in the environment. As the
environment becomes more precarious (with prices high, risk aversion low and fear lacking), a
portfolio's defensiveness should be increased. And as the environment becomes more propitious
(with prices low, risk aversion high and fear prevalent), its aggressiveness should be ramped up.
Clearly, this process is one of gradual readjustment, not a matter of all-or-nothing. It
shouldn't be the goal to do this only at bottoms and tops.

So it's my view that waiting for the bottom is folly. What, then, should be the investor's criteria?
The answer's simple: if something's cheap - based on the relationship between price and
intrinsic value - you should buy, and if it cheapens further, you should buy more.

I don't want to give the impression that it's easy to buy while prices are tumbling. It isn't, and in
2008, Bruce and I spent a lot of time supporting each other and debating whether we were buying too
fast (or too slow). The news was terrible, and for a good while it seemed as if the vicious circle of
financial institution meltdowns would continue unchecked. Terrible news makes it hard to buy
and causes many people to say, "I'm not going to try to catch a falling knife." But it's also
what pushes prices to absurdly low levels. That's why I so like the headline from Doug Kass that I
referred to above: "When the Time Comes to Buy, You Won't Want To." It's not easy to buy when
the news is terrible, prices are collapsing and it's impossible to have an idea where the bottom
lies. But doing so should be the investor's greatest aspiration.

As for the current episode, here's some data from Gavekal Research's Monthly Strategy piece for
April, bearing on the question of whether the bottom was passed in March:

 . . . markets rarely clear after one massive decline. In 15 bear markets since 1950,
 only one did not see the initial major low tested within three months . . . In all other
 cases, the bottom has been tested once or twice. Since news-flow in this crisis will
 likely worsen before it improves, a repeat seems likely.

And here's some data from my son Andrew regarding the movements of the S&P 500 index around
the time of the last two big crises. The first and second declines were followed by substantial rallies
. . . which then gave way to even bigger declines:

Gavekal's and Andrew's data tell us markets rarely rally in a straight line. Rather, their movements
represent a continuous tug-of-war between the bulls and the bears, and the result rarely goes in just
one direction. After the optimistic buyers of the initial dips have responded to the low prices and
bought, the pessimists find the new, higher prices unsustainable and engage in another round of
selling. And so it goes for a while. Thus, as Oaktree's Wayne Dahl points out, it took until mid-May
2007, or almost seven years, for the stock market to regain the September 2000 highs, and it took
until mid-March 2013, or five and a half years, to regain the highs of October 2007.

The bottom line for me is that I'm not at all troubled saying (a) markets may well be
considerably lower sometime in the coming months and (b) we're buying today when we find
good value. I don't find these statements inconsistent.


Memo: Knowledge of the Future.

As I showed by using it again in last week's memo, I was impressed by the observation of Marc
Lipsitch, Harvard epidemiologist, that there are (a) facts, (b) informed extrapolations from analogies
to other viruses and (c) opinion or speculation. He said it in connection with the novel coronavirus,
but I've been thinking about its relevance to investing.

In the past, I've defined investing as the act of positioning capital so as to profit from future
developments. I've also mentioned the challenge presented by the fact that there's no such thing as
knowing what future developments will be. This is the paradox we must deal with.

To follow Lipsitch's analysis, in our world of investing:

 • there are few if any facts regarding the future,
 • the vast majority of our theorizing about the future consists of extrapolating from past
 patterns, and
 • a lot of that extrapolation - and just about all the rest of our conclusions - consists of what
 Lipsitch calls opinion or speculation and what I call guesswork. (George Bernard Shaw
 said, "All professions are conspiracies against the laity." Thus the rules of the investment
 profession seem to require that its members describe their views about the future using high-
 sounding terms like "analysis," "assessment," "projection," "prediction" and "forecast."
 Rarely do we see the word "guess.")

Last week, in Calibrating, I mentioned having written to an Oaktree colleague that, "These days
everyone has the same data regarding the present and the same ignorance regarding the future." I
chose the title of this memo because it's such an oxymoron: there's practically no such thing as
meaningful knowledge regarding the future investment environment. Thus, this memo will be about
some things people think they know but may not.

Extrapolating from the Past

We use extrapolation from the past as the best way to deal with the future. If not for the ability to
research past patterns and apply them to decisions regarding the future, we'd have to reach a new
conclusion every day about every future possibility. So, for example, in investing we study typical
past cycles, the exceptions from the norm, and details like the up-and-down pattern that's part of
most rallies, as described last week in Calibrating.

But blind faith in the relevance of past patterns makes no more sense than completely
ignoring them. There has to be good reason to believe the past can be extrapolated to the future; as
Lipsitch says, it has to be informed extrapolation. And that brings me to the current episode.

What does the U.S. see today?

 • one of the greatest pandemics to reach us since the Spanish Flu of 102 years ago,
 • the greatest economic contraction since the Great Depression, which ended 80 years ago,
 • the greatest oil-price decline in the OPEC era (and, probably, ever), and
 • the greatest central bank/government intervention of all time.

The future for all these things is clearly unknowable. We have no reason to think we know how
they'll operate in the period ahead, how they'll interact with each other, and what the consequences
will be for everything else. In short, it's my view that if you're experiencing something that has
never been seen before, you simply can't say you know how it'll turn out.

In my last two memos, I stressed my conviction that there's no "informed" way to choose between
the positive and negative scenarios we face today, and that most people decide in a way that reflects
their biases. While searching the Internet for the source of the quote above about professions, I
came across something that I think supports my view that most people reach conclusions for reasons
that are questionable:

 An ignorant mind is precisely not a spotless, empty vessel, but one that's filled with
 the clutter of irrelevant or misleading life experiences, theories, facts, intuitions,
 strategies, algorithms, heuristics, metaphors, and hunches that regrettably have the
 look and feel of useful and accurate knowledge. This clutter is an unfortunate by-
 product of one of our greatest strengths as a species. We are unbridled pattern
 recognizers and profligate theorizers. Often, our theories are good enough to get us
 through the day, or at least to an age when we can procreate. But our genius for
 creative storytelling, combined with our inability to detect our own ignorance, can
 sometimes lead to situations that are embarrassing, unfortunate, or downright
 dangerous - especially in a technologically advanced, complex democratic society
 that occasionally invests mistaken popular beliefs with immense destructive power
 (See: crisis, financial; war, Iraq). ("We Are All Confident Idiots," David Dunning,
 Professor of Psychology, University of Michigan, Pacific Standard magazine,

In other words, we may not be able to know the future, but that doesn't keep us from
reaching conclusions about it and holding them firmly.

Getting Back to Normal

One of the greatest uncertainties we face today surrounds the outlook for the economy. The
optimists expect a V-shaped recovery, and a great deal is riding on the question of whether it'll
materialize. It depends on when America will go back to work, and that, in turn, depends to a great
extent on the trend in infections.

Early on, we were told the growth of the disease would be "exponential." We learned what that
meant - the number of new cases would grow from one day to the next by a constant percentage -
and about the idea of "flattening the curve." Thus, in the language of investing, the number of cases

would "compound." Because new cases would rise each day by a constant percentage, their number
would increase as the fixed growth rate was applied to an expanding base.

In order to get the disease under control, the following progression has to take place:

 • The growth in the number of daily new cases has to come in below expectations, meaning
 the rate of growth has to decline rather than remain constant.
 • Then the number of daily new cases has to stabilize, meaning the rate of growth is declining.
 • Then the number of daily new cases has to decline, meaning the rate of growth is negative.
 • Then the number of daily new cases has to go to zero, meaning the disease has been
 stopped.

Different places around the world and in the U.S. are at different stages in this progression. There
are places where the number of daily new cases is continuing to rise; places where the curve is
flattening and the new cases are declining (e.g., trends are positive in U.S. cities that were beset
early); and places that had good results early but are seeing rebounds as rules are relaxed and people
start to return to their normal behavior. Here are a few of the questions that bear on the outlook for
the curve:

 • Will testing and contact mapping facilitate keeping infected people out of circulation?
 • Will large numbers of asymptomatic infections impede the effort to isolate carriers?
 • Will it be possible to test people to learn whether they've had the disease and developed
 antibodies, such that they can go out in public without fear of reinfection?
 • Will herd immunity develop? Will it be permanent?
 • Will the arrival of warm weather be helpful?
 • Will a cure be developed?
 • Will the virus morph into other forms, requiring new cures?
 • Will a vaccine be developed, and when?

One of the thorniest questions remains how society and its leaders will make the trade-off
between minimizing deaths from the virus and restarting the economy. In other words, at
which step in the progression at the top of this page will the back-to-work message be delivered?
The longer people stay at home and the economy remains shut down, the further the progression
will be allowed to go, and the closer we'll get to containing the disease. Simultaneously, however,
the more damage will be done to the economy and the harder it'll be to restart.

A decision to end the stay-at-home orders on May 1 rather than May 31 will be better for the
economy in the short run, but it'll also send people into society while there are still infected people
around, and thus it's likely to result in a "rebound" or "echo," as Hong Kong and Singapore have
seen; in a re-steepening of the curve; and in further infections and deaths. How will we make that
trade-off? There's no algorithm for deciding whether to favor life for a few (or for thousands)
versus economic improvement for millions. On one hand, choosing the economy seems hard-
hearted. On the other, we permit or even encourage many activities that result in large numbers of
deaths, such as driving. Here's how renowned investor Edward Lampert put it in The New York Sun
on April 6:

 Driving an automobile is risky. In 2018, the number of auto-related fatalities in the
 United States was 36,560, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety
 Administration. Yet we don't ban automobiles, nor do we impose a 10 mile an hour
 speed limit. Doing so would eliminate most of those deaths and injuries, but it
 would also adversely affect economic activity enabled by faster transportation of
 people and products.

 Overall, the benefits of automobiles exceed the costs. Individuals knowingly
 assume the risks. Businesses compete to make money by reducing those risks. To
 deal with market failures and externalities, and to provide a certain minimum floor,
 we have regulatory mechanisms imposed by government to mitigate risks and
 compensate for losses.

 These same approaches can be useful in guiding the public policy response to the
 coronavirus, showing the way to a middle ground that minimizes harm without
 excessive costs to either the economy or individual freedom. . . .

 We need to get America back to work quickly. Businesses and individuals can adapt
 dynamically to intelligently guard their interests, seek opportunities, and make trade-
 offs. The government can provide the traffic signals and the safety standards. That
 approach to public health is consistent with a free and economically vibrant country,
 rather than in conflict with it. It's tested on our highways every day.

The last issue I want to raise on this subject surrounds the decisions each individual will have to
make regarding the point in the progression of control at which they and their loved ones will cease
practicing social distancing. Oaktree debt traders Justin Quaglia (who's been showing up in these
memos a lot) and Sam Rotondo came up with a few questions on this subject:

Assuming the quarantine is lifted:

 • when will you take your first flight? How will you react when the person next to you starts
 coughing?
 • what has to happen to make you feel it's safe to send your child back to school?
 • what will happen when everyone returns to work, allergy season begins, and a few of your
 colleagues begin to sound nasally and cough persistently?
 • when you go out to dinner with your wife/husband/friend/family, do you want to be served
 by a waiter/waitress wearing a mask and gloves?

I'll add two more: If a test says you have immunity, will you stop social distancing and go back into
public spaces while new infections are still being reported? And for us New Yorkers, when will you
get back on the subway?

Questions like these suggest that a mere message from government is unlikely to get everyone to
return to their former habits, including their jobs (if they have a choice). Instead, the reopening of
the economy is likely to be gradual and, until a vaccine is perfected or herd immunity is
reached, subject to alternating periods of progress and retreat.

Washington Goes to Battle

Over the last few weeks, the Fed, SEC and Treasury have announced an unprecedented program of
stimulus, support, rescue and regulatory relief. They continue to bring new actions forward and
expand the size and scope of existing ones. There's no reason to believe there's anything they
won't do or any magnitude they won't exceed. I was among many who were worried a month ago
about the limited scope of the Fed arsenal, given that the federal funds rate stood at only 11⁄2% and
most past rate-cutting programs ran to about 500 basis points. Now we see the vast extent of the
Fed's potential toolkit.

On March 15, in announcing the second of two rate cuts totaling 150 basis points that took the short-
term federal funds rate to nearly zero, Fed Chairman Jay Powell said the following: "We really are
going to use our tools to do what we need to do here." (Reuters, March 16). Two weeks later, he
elaborated on the Fed's intentions (emphasis added):

 Mr. Powell has made clear that even with interest rates at zero, the Fed's
 firepower is limitless. "When it comes to lending, we are not going to run out of
 ammunition," he said Thursday [March 26] in an interview on NBC's "Today"
 show. "That doesn't happen." (The Wall Street Journal, March 30)

Here are some excerpts from Bulletin Intelligence's April 10 recap regarding the Fed's actions
(emphasis added):

 CNBC reports that the Federal Reserve has "dramatically expanded its efforts to
 save the economy, even adding junk bonds to the list of assets it can buy, as a wave
 of businesses are anticipated to have trouble surviving the expected recession."
 According to CNBC, "Stocks jumped, Treasury yields rose and the dollar sagged
 after the Fed said it would provide $2.3 trillion in programs that expand its
 operations to reach small and midsized businesses and U.S. cities and states."
 CNBC says the Fed "expanded its corporate lending programs to take it into an
 entirely new area, including ETFs of companies that are rated below
 investment grade. It had previously announced a program to buy investment-grade
 corporate debt and ETFs. It also will now accept triple-A-rated commercial
 mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations."

 Bloomberg reports that "investors quickly bid up prices on corporate bonds and
 stocks after the announcement. High-yield debt was among the biggest gainers, with
 some of the largest ETFs tracking those bonds surging the most in a decade."
 According to Bloomberg, "The nature of the Fed's actions pass the traditional
 boundaries of the central bank to purchase lower-rated debt and the credit of
 municipalities, raising questions about its future role."

 The Washington Post editorializes, "The Fed is putting its balance sheet at the
 service of the private sector for what we must hope is the shortest period
 absolutely necessary," but "it will be up to Congress to provide whatever needed
 funding - for health care, state budget relief and individual income support - lies
 beyond the Fed's ambit."

 An editorial in the Wall Street Journal views the Fed's move as a misstep that
 increases the Fed's exposure to risky assets [see page 8], and overlooks Main Street
 in favor of Wall Street. The decision also poses a threat to the traditional
 concept of American capitalism, as the Fed and Treasury become the leading
 lenders to US businesses.

There's no doubt in anyone's mind that there was a pressing need for a swift and pronounced
response to the economic impact of the effort to combat the pandemic. Less than a month ago,
Bruce Karsh and I were pondering the possibility of a global depression. We never hear about that
topic anymore, and much of the discussion centers around whether 2019 GDP will be exceeded in
2021 or whether it'll take until 2022.

Now, instead of discussing depression, we wonder about the propriety and long-term impact of the
various government actions. I don't intend to dissect the program emanating from Washington in
detail, but I do want to raise some questions:

"Limitless" is an interesting word (see previous page). Is the program really limitless? And is
that okay? The stimulus, loans, bailouts, benefits and bond buying that have been announced thus
far add up to several trillion dollars. What are the implications of the resultant additions to the
federal deficit and the Fed's balance sheet? To be facetious, the government could send every
American a check for $1 million, at a cost of $330 trillion. Would there be negative consequences
from doing this, such as burgeoning inflation, a downgrade of U.S. creditworthiness or the
dollar losing its status as the world's reserve currency? If the answer is yes, is there a point
below $330 trillion at which those ramifications might kick in? And if so, where? Could we be
there already?

Obviously, what these government entities are doing is cushioning the financial impact of the
economic deepfreeze. And as I mentioned on March 31 in Which Way Now?, they clearly have the
ability to distribute enough money to make up for businesses' lost revenues and workers' lost
wages. But what'll be the impact on America of the loss of a substantial portion of the second
quarter's production of goods and services? How will the economy rebound, and at what
speed? If we have stops and starts, and if workers return gradually as suggested on page 4, is
a V-shaped recovery still likely? What'll be the effect if some unemployed workers who used to
earn less than $1,200 per week can receive more than that in benefits?

Finally, I want to talk about the Fed's role and the impact of its behavior. Just two months ago,
I attended a dinner with the president of one of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks. I asked him whether
the Fed might adopt the tactic of buying corporate bonds, given the limited room for rate cuts. No,
he said, it would only buy government and agency obligations. As mentioned above, a few weeks
ago the Fed added investment grade corporates to its buying list, and last week it dropped down to
include some high yield securities (BBBs downgraded to BB and some high yield ETFs).

It also gave regulatory relief to business developments companies, or BDCs, which buy or make
loans to mid-size businesses. In order to help them avoid tripping limits on their activities, the Fed
said they can value the loans on their books at December 31 prices. "The SEC is primarily trying to
address the issue that a temporary markdown in the fair value of BDC portfolio companies could
increase leverage above the regulatory maximum, thus limiting further lending by a BDC. As such,

the SEC is allowing BDCs to use an adjusted portfolio value when calculating their asset coverage
(leverage) ratio." (Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, April 9) In other words, we're in a regulatory
wonderland where there's no pretense that financial statements have to be accurate or
current.

I was particularly surprised by these latter actions. What's the Fed's purpose in buying non-
investment grade debt? Does it want to make sure all companies are able to borrow, regardless of
their fundamentals? Does it want to protect bondholders from losses, and even mark-to-market
declines? Who'll do the buying for the government and make sure the purchase prices aren't too
high and defaulting issuers are avoided (or doesn't anyone care)?

And why should the SEC provide relief to leveraged investment vehicles? If such an entity
proves to be over-leveraged and sees its collateral marked down such that it's constricted or even
liquidated, what's the loss to society? Why should leveraged investors - ostensibly not systemically
important - be protected from pain?

In the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis, the Fed and Treasury undertook a number of actions
to encourage price discovery, rekindle risk-bearing and reopen markets. They worked well, their
goals were accomplished, and the U.S. recovery from the GFC was swift and strong. (Of course, we
can debate whether the willingness to bear risk snapped back too fast and too far.) But some of
these things were done through encouraging the operation of market mechanisms, not direct action.
Now bonds are being bought and rules waived. Is there a point at which these things become
undesirable?

Most of us believe in the free-market system as the best allocator of resources. Now it seems the
government is happy to step in and take the place of private actors. We have a buyer and lender of
last resort, cushioning pain but taking over the role of the free market. When people get the feeling
that the government will protect them from unpleasant financial consequences of their actions, it's
called "moral hazard." People and institutions are protected from pain, but bad lessons are learned.

A company uses its cash and perhaps borrows more to repurchase its shares. A corporate acquiror
chooses to use more leverage rather than less. Or the organizer of a REIT or CLO takes on more
debt in order to amplify its returns. In each case, the chosen tactic will magnify profits if things go
well, but it'll also magnify losses if things go poorly and reduce the probability of surviving
tough times. If these parties get to enjoy the fruits of their actions when they're successful but are
protected from loss when they fail, risk-taking is encouraged and risk aversion is suppressed.

There's an old saying - variously attributed - to the effect that "capitalism without bankruptcy is
like Catholicism without hell." It appeals to me strongly. Markets work best when participants
have a healthy fear of loss. It shouldn't be the role of the Fed or the government to eradicate
it.

Some people argue these days that there's no way those who took on leverage that turned out to be
excessive could have been expected to anticipate a pandemic and the resultant damage to the
economy. Thus, the argument goes, the jam the government is rescuing them from "isn't their
fault," meaning the bailout isn't unreasonable. As I wrote in Which Way Now?, I understand they
aren't guilty of having ignored a likely risk. But unlikely (and even unforeseeable) things happen
from time to time, and investors and businesspeople have to allow for that possibility and expect to

bear the consequences. In other words, they have to think like the six-foot-tall man hoping to get
across the stream that's five feet deep on average. I see no reason why financiers should be
bailed out simply because the event they're being harmed by was unpredictable.

Here's the reaction of The Wall Street Journal to last week's Fed actions (April 9; emphasis added):

 The big winners included non-investment grade corporate bonds and real-estate
 investment trusts that will now qualify for Fed programs despite their credit risk.
 High-yield and municipal bond prices also rose. Growth companies like Amazon,
 Intel and Nvidia fell or were flat, and the overall market reaction was
 underwhelming.

 This reflects the priorities of the Fed's new lending facilities, and how far out on the
 risk curve it is going. Take the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility that the
 Fed first used in 2008 and that it revised last month. In 2008 TALF accepted only
 triple-A-rated securities and it made money on the loans. On Thursday the Fed said
 it will now accept much riskier credits including commercial mortgage securities
 and collateralized loan obligations.

 These are loan pools packaged into securities by Wall Street, which lobbied the
 Fed and Treasury hard for the TALF expansion. This means the Fed will in
 effect buy the worst shopping malls in the country and some of the most
 indebted companies. The opportunities for losses will be that much greater.
 Treasury is backstopping losses, but the taxpayer risks here are greater than what the

 The Fed may feel all of this is essential to protect the financial system's plumbing
 and reduce systemic risk until the virus crisis passes, but make no mistake that the
 Fed is protecting Wall Street first. The goal seems to be to lift asset prices, as the
 Fed did after the financial panic, and hope that the wealth effect filters down to the
 rest of the economy.

The bank bailout of 2008 has been roundly cited as a case of the government putting Wall Street
ahead of Main Street, and it contributed significantly to the populism that has riven American
politics ever since. This recent step to rescue leveraged lenders may add further fuel to that fire.

 * * *

The market seems to have passed judgment with regard to the future. U.S. deaths have reached
23,000 and continue to rise. Weekly unemployment claims are running at 10 times the all-time
record. The GDP decline in the current quarter is likely to be the worst in history. But people are
cheered by the outlook for therapies and vaccines, and investors have concluded that the
Fed/Treasury will reduce the pain and bring on a V-shaped recovery. There's an old saying that
"you can't fight the Fed" - that is, the Fed can accomplish whatever it wants - and investors are
buying it. Thus, the S&P 500 has risen 23% since its bottom on March 23, and there's little concern
about the retrenchments that typically have been part of past market rallies.

But Justin Beal, my artist son-in-law, is mystified. "I don't get it," he told me on Saturday. "The
virus is rampant, business is frozen, and the government's throwing money all over the place, even
though tax revenues have to be down. How can the market be rising so strongly?" We'll find out as
the future unfolds.


Memo: Uncertainty.

I wrote a memo a week for six weeks starting on March 3, but I've skipped the last three weeks.
First, the string had to end sometime. And second, I try to adhere to the principle that if I don't have
anything additive to say, I don't write. Hopefully you'll find this one worth reading.

Our inability to know the future is a theme I've touched on repeatedly over the years, but now I've
decided to devote an entire memo to it. Being at home for nearly two months means I've had a lot of
time on my hands, like everyone else. And it's a good thing, because getting philosophical musings
down on paper is a lot harder than writing about current events and what to do about them.

And while I'm explaining myself, I'll apologize up front for the number of citations and their length
- but there's so much wisdom I want to share.

All We Don't Know

As everyone knows, today we're experiencing unprecedented (or at least highly exceptional)
developments in four areas: the pandemic, the economic contraction, the oil price collapse and the
Fed/government response. Thus a number of considerations make the future particularly
unpredictable these days:

 • The field of economics is muddled and imprecise, and there's good reason it's called "the
 dismal science." Unlike a "real" science like physics, in economics there are no rules that
 one can count on to consistently produce a given outcome, as in "if a, then b." There are only
 patterns that tend to repeat, and while they may be historical, logical and often-observed,
 they're still only tendencies.
 • In some recent memos, I've mentioned Marc Lipsitch, Professor of Epidemiology at
 Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health. In my version of his hierarchy, there are (a)
 facts, (b) logical inferences from past experience and (c) guesses. Because of the imprecision
 of economics, there certainly are no facts about the economic future. Economists and
 investors make inferences from past patterns, but these are unreliable at best, and I think in
 many cases their judgments fall under the heading of "guesses."
 • These days I'm often asked questions like "Will the recovery be V-shaped, or a U, W or L?"
 and "Which of the crises you've lived through does this one most resemble?" Answering
 questions like those requires a historical perspective.
 • Given the exceptional developments enumerated above, however, there's little or no history
 that's relevant to today. That means we don't have past patterns to fall back on or to
 extrapolate from. As I've said, if you've never experienced something before, you can't
 say you know how it's going to turn out.
 • While unique developments like those of today make forecasting unusually difficult, the
 presence of all four elements at once probably renders it impossible. In addition to the

 difficulty of understanding each of the four individually, we can't be sure how they'll
 interact. For example:

 o Will the massive, multi-faceted Fed/Treasury program of loans, grants, stimulus and
 bond buying be sufficient to offset the unparalleled damage done to the economy by
 the fight against Covid-19?
 o To what extent will reopening bring back economic activity, and to what extent will
 that cause the spread of the disease to resume, and the renewal of lock-downs?

For investors, the future is determined by thousands of factors, such as the internal workings of
economies, the participants' psyches, exogenous events, governmental action, weather and other
forms of randomness. Thus the problem is enormously multi-variate. Take the current situation,
with its four major components (Covid-19, the economy, oil and the Fed), and consider just one: the
disease. Now think about all the questions surrounding it:

 • How many people have it, including those who are asymptomatic?
 • How likely is contact with someone who's infected to create another case?
 • To what degree will distancing and masks deter its spread?
 • Will the cases be severe, mild or asymptomatic? Why?
 • Will the supply of protective gear for medical personnel, hospital beds and ventilators be
 adequate?
 • Will a treatment be developed? To what extent will it speed recovery and prevent fatalities?
 • What will the fatality rate be relative to age, gender and pre-existing conditions? Will the
 impact of the disease on young people worsen?
 • Will people who've had it and recovered be immune? Will their immunity be permanent?
 • Will the virus mutate, and will immunity cover the new forms?
 • Will it be possible to inject antibodies to prevent infection?
 • How many people have to be immune for herd immunity to effectively stop the further
 spread?
 • Will social distancing delay the achievement of herd immunity? Is the Swedish approach
 better?
 • Will a vaccine be invented? When? How long will it take to produce and deliver the needed
 doses? Where will the U.S. stand in the line to get it?
 • How many people will refuse to be vaccinated? With what effect?
 • Will vaccination have to be renewed annually?
 • Will the virus succumb to warm weather and humidity?
 • Will the virus be with us permanently, and will it be controllable like "just another seasonal
 disease"?

Where am I going with this? My point is that very few people can balance all these considerations
to figure out our collective risk. And that's just Covid-19. Now think about the many questions that
pertain to each of the three other factors. Who can respond to this many questions, come up with
valid answers, consider their interaction, appropriately weight the various considerations on
the basis of their importance, and process them for a useful conclusion regarding the virus's
impact? It would take an exceptional mind to deal with all these factors simultaneously and reach a
better conclusion than most other people. (I believe a computer couldn't do so either, especially
given all the subjective decisions required in the absence of historic precedent.)

The challenge lies in trying to be above average in assessing the future. Why is that so hard?

First of all, forecasting is a competitive arena. The argument for the difficulty of out-forecasting
others is similar to the argument for market efficiency (and thus the limitations of active
management). Thousands of others are trying, too, and they're not "empty suits." Many of them
are educated, intelligent, numerate, hard-working, highly motivated and able to access vast amounts
of data and computing power. So by definition it shouldn't be easy to be better than the average.

In addition, since economics is imprecise, unscientific and inconsistent in its functioning, as
described above, there can't be a method or process for forecasting that works consistently. To
illustrate randomness, I say that if, when I graduated from business school, I was offered a huge
budget, an army of PhDs and lavish financial incentives to predict the coin toss before each Sunday's
football games, I would have been a flop. No one can succeed in predicting things that are
heavily influenced by randomness and otherwise inconsistent.

Now consider the possibility that reaching conclusions is especially difficult in times of stress like
today:

 [Recent advances in neuroscience] suggest that we are no more than "inference
 machines" with various degrees of sophistication in how we explain our thoughts. In
 other words, we use a lot of pattern-driven guesswork as we go about our daily lives
 or to fill in the gaps in an incomplete narrative.

 This is especially true in times of stress, as many of the mental processes that govern
 our reactions are associated with an urgent search for patterns to determine our
 moves. That is our snap reaction in economic or financial crises and why we
 cling to our repertoire of charts of V, U or L-shapes of recovery, among many.

 But, in very dislocated environments, we find serious limitations to this approach.

 Looking at the current environment, with disruptions to supply, demand, health and
 liquidity tensions, we could build an ensemble of the Spanish flu, the Fukushima
 earthquake and components of the 2008 crisis, for example. But given the very
 specific contexts of each event, we may run into endless combinations of the lessons
 learnt from these events.

 As a matter of fact, in a side-by-side comparison of many economic forecasts,
 even similar assumptions drive very different outcomes on how this crisis will
 play out. This may be a case of the "Anna Karenina principle" coined by Professor
 Yossi Sheffi at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Paraphrasing Tolstoy, while
 happy economies are all alike, every unhappy economy is unhappy in its own way.

 We can't assume that the response to public health or financial interventions will be
 similar across vastly different contexts. The root cause of this mistake is to look at
 average responses from past events. But the reality is not like that. (Juan-Luis
 Perez, head of research, Evidence Lab and Analytics, at UBS, the Financial Times,
 April 22, emphasis added)

So forecasting is difficult for a large number of reasons, including our limited understanding
of the processes that will produce the future, their imprecise nature, the lack of historical
precedent, the unpredictability of people's behavior and the role of randomness, and these
difficulties are exacerbated by today's unusual circumstances.

Senior economics consultant Neil Irwin put it together very well in The New York Times on
April 16:

 The world economy is an infinitely complicated web of interconnections. We each
 have a series of direct economic interrelationships we can see: the stores we buy
 from, the employer that pays our salary, the bank that gives us a home loan. But once
 you get two or three levels out, it's really impossible to know with any confidence
 how those connections work.

 And that, in turn, shows what is unnerving about the economic calamity
 accompanying the spread of the novel coronavirus.

 In the years ahead we will learn what happens when that web is torn apart, when
 millions of those links are destroyed all at once. And it opens the possibility of a
 global economy completely different from the one that has prevailed in recent
 decades.

I couldn't agree more with what Irwin says. Or, to use one of my all-time favorite quotes, from John
Kenneth Galbraith:

 We have two classes of forecasters: Those who don't know - and those who don't
 know they don't know.

While I'm in the subject of favorite quotes, I'll take advantage of the occasion to share some others
on this subject that I've stored up over the years (I think the first one may be the greatest ever):

 No amount of sophistication is going to allay the fact that all of your knowledge
 is about the past and all your decisions are about the future.

 Ian Wilson (former GE executive)

 Those who have knowledge don't predict; those who predict don't have knowledge.

 Lao Tzu

 People can foresee the future only when it coincides with their own wishes, and the
 most grossly obvious facts can be ignored when they are unwelcome.

 George Orwell

 Forecasts create the mirage that the future is knowable.

 Peter Bernstein

 I never think of the future - it comes soon enough.

 Albert Einstein

 The future you shall know when it has come; before then forget it.

 Aeschylus

 Forecasts usually tell us more of the forecaster than of the future.

 Warren Buffett

I think you get the point. I seem to be in good company in my belief that the future is unknowable.

Having made that assertion, I'll admit that it's an extreme oversimplification and not entirely
correct. There actually are things we know about the macro future. The trouble is that,
mostly, they're things everyone knows. Examples include the fact that U.S. GDP grows about 2%
per year on average; heating oil consumption increases in winter; and a great deal of shopping is
moving on-line. But since everyone knows these things, they're unlikely to be much help in the
pursuit of above average returns. As I've described before, the things most people expect to happen
- consensus forecasts - are by definition incorporated into asset prices at any point in time. Since the
future is usually a lot like the past, most forecasts - and especially macro forecasts - are
extrapolations of recent trends and current levels, and they're built into prices. Since extrapolation is
appropriate most of the time, most people's forecasts are roughly correct. But because they're
already reflected in security prices, most extrapolations aren't a source of above average returns.

The forecasts that produce great profits are the ones that presciently foresee radical deviations from
the past. But that kind of forecast is, first, very hard to make and, second, rarely right. Thus most
forecasts of deviation from trend also aren't a source of above average returns.

So let me recap: (a) only correct forecasts of a very different future are valuable, (b) it's hard to make
forecasts like that, (c) such unconventional predictions are rarely right, (d) thus it's hard to be an
above average forecaster, and (e) it's only above average forecasts that lead to above average returns.

So there's a conundrum:

 • Investing is the art of positioning capital so as to profit from future developments.
 • Most professional investors strive for above average returns (i.e., they want to beat the
 market and earn their fees).

 • However, according to the above logic, macro forecasts shouldn't be expected to lead to
 above average returns.
 • Yet very few people are content to invest while practicing agnosticism with regard to the
 macro future. They may on some level understand the difficulty entailed in forecasting, but
 their reluctance to admit their ignorance of the future (especially to themselves) usually
 overcomes that understanding with ease.
 • And so they keep trying to predict future events - and the investment industry produces a
 large volume of forecasts.

As I've expressed in recent memos, I feel the process through which most of us arrive at our
view of the future is highly reflective of our biases. Given the unusually wide chasm between the
optimistic and pessimistic cases at this time - and the impossibility of choosing between them based
on facts and historical precedents (since there are none) - I continue to think about the role of bias.

One of the biggest mistakes an investor can make is ignoring or denying his or her biases. If there
are influences that make our processes less than objective, we should face up to this fact in order to
avoid being held captive by them.

Our biases may be insidious, but they are highly influential. When I read articles about how difficult
it will be to provide adequate testing for Covid-19 or to get support to small businesses, I'm pleased
to see my wary views reinforced, and I find it easy to incorporate those things into my thinking. But
when I hear about the benefits of reopening the economy or the possibility of herd immunity, I find it
just as easy to come up with counter-arguments that leave my concerns undented. This is a clear
example of "confirmation bias" at work:

 Once we have formed a view, we embrace information that confirms that view while
 ignoring, or rejecting, information that casts doubt on it. Confirmation bias suggests
 that we don't perceive circumstances objectively. We pick out those bits of data that
 make us feel good because they confirm our prejudices. Thus, we may become
 prisoners of our assumptions. (Shahram Heshmat, Psychology Today, April 23,

As Paul Simon wrote 50 years ago for the song The Boxer, ". . . a man hears what he wants to hear and
disregards the rest."

While I didn't know the name for it, I've long been aware of my bias. In a recent memo, I told the
story from 50 years ago, when I was Citibank's office equipment analyst, of being asked who the
best sell-side analyst on Xerox was. My answer was simple: "The one who agrees with me most is
so-and-so." Most people are unlikely to think highly of anyone whose views they oppose. So when
we think about which economists we quote, which investors we respect, and where we get our
information, it's likely that their views will parallel ours.

Of course, taken to an extreme, this has resulted in the unfortunate, polarized state in which we find
the U.S. today. News organizations realized decades ago that people would rather consume stories
that confirm their views than those that challenge them (or are dully neutral). Few people follow
media outlets that reflect a diversity of opinion. Most people stick to one newspaper, cable news
channel or political website. And few of those fairly present both sides of the story. Thus most
people hear a version of the news that is totally unlike the one heard by those on the other side of the

debate. When all the facts and opinions you hear confirm your own beliefs, mental life is very
relaxed but not very enriching.

What's the ideal? A calm, open mind and an objective process. Wouldn't we all be better off if
those things were universal?

In Praise of Doubt

Another favorite theme of mine - and I'm mildly apologetic for its repetition in these memos - is
how important it is to acknowledge what we don't know.

First of all, if we're going to out-invest the rest, we need a game plan. There are a lot of possible
routes to success on which to base your process: in-depth research into companies, industries and
securities; arbitrage; algorithmic investing; factor investing; even indexation. But if I'm right about
the difficulty of macro forecasting, for most people that shouldn't be it.

Second, and probably more importantly, excessive trust in forecasting can be dangerous to your
financial health. It's never been put better than in the quote that's often attributed to Mark Twain,
but also to several others:

 It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for
 sure that just ain't so.

Just a few words, but a great deal of wisdom. No statement that starts with "I don't know but . . ." or
"I could be wrong but . . ." ever got anyone into big trouble. If we admit to uncertainty, we'll
investigate before we invest, double-check our conclusions and proceed with caution. We may sub-
optimize when times are good, but we're unlikely to flame out or melt down. On the other hand,
people who are sure may dispense with those things, and if they're sure and wrong, as the
quote suggests, the outcome can be catastrophic.

Investing is challenging in this way, as in so many others. Active investors have to be confident.
Yale's David Swensen said it as well as it can be said (that's why I go back to this quote so often in
my memos and books):

 Establishing and maintaining an unconventional investment profile requires
 acceptance of uncomfortably idiosyncratic portfolios, which frequently appear
 downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom. (Pioneering Portfolio
 Management)

To do better than most, you have to depart from the crowd. As I said in my April 6 memo
Calibrating, echoing Swensen, all great investments begin in discomfort, since the things everyone
likes and feels good about are unlikely to be on the bargain counter. But to invest in things that are
out of favor - at the risk of standing out from the crowd and appearing to have made a big mistake -
takes confidence and resolve. It also requires confidence to hold onto a position when it declines -
and perhaps add to it at lower prices - in the period before one's wisdom becomes clear and it turns
into a winner. And it takes confidence to continue holding a highly appreciated investment you think
still has upside potential, at the risk of possibly giving up some of the gains to date.

But when does reason-based confidence turn into hubris and obstinateness? That's the key
question. Holding and adding to declining positions is only a good idea if the underlying thesis turns
out to be right and things eventually go as expected. In other words, when do you allow for the
possibility that you're wrong?

From the very beginning of my investing career, I've felt a sense of uncertainty. But I don't think
that's a bad thing:

 • "Investing scared" - a less glamorous term than "applying appropriate risk aversion" - will
 push you to do thorough due diligence, employ conservative assumptions, insist on an ample
 margin of safety in case things go wrong, and invest only when the potential return is at least
 commensurate with the risk. In fact, I think worry sharpens your focus. Investing scared
 will result in making fewer mistakes (although perhaps at the price of failing to take
 maximum advantage of bull markets).
 • When I started investing in high yield bonds in 1978, and when Bruce Karsh and I first
 targeted distressed debt in 1988, it seemed clear that the route to long-term success in such
 uncertain areas lay in limiting losses rather than targeting maximum gains. That approach
 has permitted us to still be here, while many one-time competitors no longer are.
 • I can tell you that in the Global Financial Crisis, following the bankruptcy of Lehman
 Brothers, we felt enormous uncertainty. If you didn't, there was something wrong with you,
 since there was a meaningful possibility the financial system would collapse. When we
 started buying, Bruce came to me often saying, "I think we're going too slow," and then the
 next day, "I think we're going too fast." But that didn't keep him from investing an average
 of $450 million per week over the last 15 weeks of 2008. I think Bruce's ability to grapple
 with his doubts helped him arrive at the right pace of investment.

The topic of dealing with what you don't know brings me to a phrase I came across a few years ago
and think is very important: intellectual humility.

Here's part of the article that first brought it to my attention:

 "Intellectual humility" has been something of a wallflower among personality traits,
 receiving far less scholarly attention than such brash qualities as egotism or hostility.
 Yet this little-studied characteristic may influence people's decision-making abilities
 in politics, health and other arenas, says new research from Duke University. . . .

 As defined by the authors, intellectual humility is the opposite of intellectual
 arrogance or conceit. In common parlance, it resembles open-mindedness.
 Intellectually humble people can have strong beliefs, but recognize their
 fallibility and are willing to be proven wrong on matters large and small, Leary
 said. (Alison Jones, Duke Today, March 17, 2017, emphasis added)

To get a little more technical, here are a couple of useful paragraphs from a discussion of the
paper cited above:

 The term, intellectual humility (IH), has been defined in several ways, but most
 definitions converge on the notion that IH involves recognizing that one's beliefs and

 opinions might be incorrect. . . . Some definitions of IH include other features or
 characteristics - such as low defensiveness, appreciating other people's intellectual
 strengths, or a prosocial orientation . . .

 One conceptualization defines intellectual humility as recognizing that a
 particular personal belief may be fallible, accompanied by an appropriate
 attentiveness to limitations in the evidentiary basis of that belief and to one's
 own limitations in obtaining and evaluating relevant information. This definition
 qualifies the core characteristic (recognizing that one's belief may be wrong) with
 considerations that distinguish IH from mere lack of confidence in one's knowledge
 or understanding. IH can be distinguished from uncertainty or low self-confidence by
 the degree to which people hold their beliefs tentatively specifically because they are
 aware that the evidence on which those beliefs are based could be limited or flawed,
 that they might lack relevant information, or that they may not have the expertise or
 ability to understand and evaluate the evidence. (The Psychology of Intellectual
 Humility, Mark Leary, Duke University, emphasis added)

"Attentiveness to limitations in the evidentiary basis" (or to the limitations imposed by future
uncertainty) is a very important further concept. Here's how I discussed it in my book Mastering the
Market Cycle:

 Most people think the way to deal with the future is by formulating an opinion as to
 what's going to happen, perhaps via a probability distribution. I think there are
 actually two requirements, not one. In addition to an opinion regarding what's going
 to happen, people should have a view on the likelihood that their opinion will prove
 correct. Some events can be predicted with substantial confidence (e.g., will a given
 investment grade bond pay the interest it promises?), some are uncertain (will
 Amazon still be the leader in online retailing in ten years?) and some are entirely
 unpredictable (will the stock market go up or down next month?) It's my point here
 that not all predictions should be treated as equally likely to be correct, and thus they
 shouldn't be relied on equally. I don't think most people are as aware of this as they
 should be.

In short, we have to have a realistic view of the probability that we're right before we choose a
course of action and decide how heavily to bet on it. And anyone who's sure about what's going to
happen in the world, the economy or the markets is probably deceiving himself.

It all comes down to dealing with uncertainty. To me, that starts with acknowledging uncertainty and
having an appropriate degree of respect for it. As I quoted Annie Duke this past January, in my
memo You Bet!:

 What good poker players and good decision-makers have in common is their comfort
 with the world being an uncertain and unpredictable place. They understand that they
 can almost never know exactly how something will turn out. They embrace that
 uncertainty and, instead of focusing on being sure, they try to figure out how unsure
 they are, making their best guess at the chances that different outcomes will occur.
 (Thinking in Bets)

To put it simply, intellectual humility means saying "I'm not sure," "The other person could be
right," or even "I might be wrong." I think it's an essential trait for investors; I know it is in
the people I like to associate with.

As so often happens when I'm thinking about a memo, I recently got an incredibly helpful note from
my friend Leslie Lichtenstein at the University of Chicago, connecting the concept of humility to the
current episode. Here's what she wrote:

 This morning I read an article from Behavioral Scientist by Erik Angner [professor of
 practical philosophy at Stockholm University] called "Epistemic Humility - Knowing
 Your Limits in a Pandemic," which made me think of you and several of your recent
 memos. The article opens with a quote from Charles Darwin in 1871 - "Ignorance
 more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge." It goes on to say,
 "Being a true expert involves not only knowing stuff about the world but also
 knowing the limits of your knowledge and expertise." (Emphasis in Leslie's note)

I couldn't agree more. People who are always sure are no more helpful than people who are never
sure. The real expert's confidence is reason-based and proportional to the weight of the evidence.
Leslie's note sent me to the original of the article she cited, and I found so much to share:

 In the middle of a pandemic, knowledge is in short supply. We don't know how
 many people are infected, or how many people will be. We have much to learn about
 how to treat the people who are sick - and how to help prevent infection in those who
 aren't. There's reasonable disagreement on the best policies to pursue, whether about
 health care, economics, or supply distribution. Although scientists worldwide are
 working hard and in concert to address these questions, final answers are some ways
 away.

 Another thing that's in short supply is the realization of how little we know. . . .

 Frequent expressions of supreme confidence might seem odd in light of our obvious
 and inevitable ignorance about a new threat. The thing about overconfidence,
 though, is that it afflicts most of us much of the time. That's according to cognitive
 psychologists, who've studied the phenomenon systematically for half a century.
 Overconfidence has been called "the mother of all psychological biases. . . ."

 The point is not that true experts should withhold their beliefs or that they should
 never speak with conviction. Some beliefs are better supported by the evidence than
 others, after all, and we should not hesitate to say so. The point is that true experts
 express themselves with the proper degree of confidence - meaning with a degree of
 confidence that's justified given the evidence. . . .

 [Compare what you hear on TV against a tweet from medical statistician Robert
 Grant]: "I've studied this stuff at university, done data analysis for decades, written
 several NHS guidelines (including one for an infectious disease), and taught it to
 health professionals. That's why you don't see me making any coronavirus
 forecasts. . . ."

 The concept of epistemic humility is . . . an intellectual virtue. It is grounded in the
 realization that our knowledge is always provisional and incomplete - and that it
 might require revision in light of new evidence. Grant appreciates the extent of our
 ignorance under these difficult conditions; the other characters don't. A lack of
 epistemic humility is a vice - and it can cause massive damage both in our private
 lives and in public policy.

 Calibrating your confidence can be tricky. As Justin Kruger and David Dunning
 have emphasized, our cognitive and metacognitive skills are intertwined. People who
 lack the cognitive skills required to perform a task typically also lack the
 metacognitive skills required to assess their performance. Incompetent people are
 at a double disadvantage, since they are not only incompetent but also likely
 unaware of it [Galbraith's forecasters "who don't know they don't know"!].
 This has immediate implications for amateur epidemiologists. If you don't have the
 skill set required to do advanced epidemiological modeling yourself, you should
 assume that you can't tell good models from bad.

 . . . it's never been more important to learn to separate the wheat from the chaff - the
 experts who offer well-sourced information from the charlatans who offer little but
 misdirection. The latter are sadly common, in part because they are in greater
 demand on TV and in politics. It can be hard to tell who's who. But paying attention
 to their confidence offers a clue. People who express themselves with extreme
 confidence without having access to relevant information and the experience and
 training required to process it can safely be classified among the charlatans until
 further notice. . . .

 Again, it is fine and good to have opinions, and to express them in public - even with
 great conviction. The point is that true experts, unlike charlatans, express
 themselves in a way that mirrors their limitations. All of us who want to be taken
 seriously would do well to demonstrate the virtue of epistemic humility. (Erik
 Angner, Behavioral Scientist, April 13, emphasis added)

The more I think about it, the bottom line is clear:

 • The world is an uncertain place.
 • It's more uncertain today than at any other time in our lifetimes.
 • Few people know what the future holds much better than others.
 • And yet investing deals entirely with the future, meaning investors can't avoid
 making decisions about it.
 • Confidence is indispensable in investing, but too much of it can be lethal.
 • The bigger the topic (world, economy, markets, currencies and rates), the less
 possible it is to achieve superior knowledge.
 • Even our decisions about smaller things (companies, industries and securities)
 have to be conditioned on assumptions regarding the bigger things, so they, too,
 are uncertain.
 • The ability to deal intelligently with uncertainty is one of the most important skills.

 • In doing so, we should understand the limitations on our foresight and whether a
 given forecast is more or less dependable than most.
 • Anyone who fails to do so is probably riding for a fall.

As Neil Irwin wrote in the article cited on page 4:

 It would be foolish, amid such uncertainty, to make overly confident predictions
 about how the world economic order will look in five years, or even five months.

Or maybe Voltaire said it best 250 years ago: Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is
absurd.


Memo: Uncertainty II.

I've written a few times about the frequency with which I come across something additive just before
finalizing a memo. This time I wasn't so lucky: my wife Nancy brought an important article to my
attention two weeks after the publication of Uncertainty. The article's appearance, along with a
second potential addition, prompts me to write this post-script to that memo. I have a few thoughts
to add, all generally related to the topic of foreknowledge.

No One Knows What's Going to Happen

The above heading was the title of an excellent article by Mark Lilla, a professor of humanities at
Columbia University, which appeared in The New York Times this past Sunday. (You may remember
my previous discussion of our tendency to think highly of people who agree with us. I readily admit
that the reason I like this article so much may lie in the fact that it confirms a great deal of what I said
in Uncertainty.) Here are some excerpts from that article:

 The best prophet, Thomas Hobbes once wrote, is the best guesser. That would
 seem to be the last word on our capacity to predict the future: We can't.

 But it is a truth humans have never been able to accept. People facing immediate
 danger want to hear an authoritative voice they can draw assurance from; they want
 to be told what will occur, how they should prepare, and that all will be well. We are
 not well designed, it seems, to live in uncertainty. Rousseau exaggerated only
 slightly when he said that when things are truly important, we prefer to be
 wrong than to believe nothing at all. . . .

 Apart from the actual biology of the coronavirus - which we are only beginning
 to understand - nothing is predestined. How many people fall ill with it depends
 on how they behave, how we test them, how we treat them and how lucky we are
 in developing a vaccine.

 The result of those decisions will then limit the choices about reopening that
 employers, mayors, university presidents and sports club owners are facing. Their
 decisions will then feed back into our own decisions, including whom we choose for
 president this November. And the results of that election will have the largest impact
 on what the next four years will hold.

 The pandemic has brought home just how great a responsibility we bear toward the
 future, and also how inadequate our knowledge is for making wise decisions and
 anticipating consequences. Perhaps that is why our prophets and augurs can't keep
 up with the demand for foresight.

 At some level, people must be thinking that the more they learn about what is
 predetermined, the more control they will have. This is an illusion. Human beings
 want to feel that they are on a power walk into the future, when in fact we are
 always just tapping our canes on the pavement in the fog.

 A dose of humility would do us good in the present moment. It might also help
 reconcile us to the radical uncertainty in which we are always living. Let us retire our
 prophets and augurs. [Emphasis added]

Lilla's article pulls together in one place several themes from Uncertainty and other recent memos:

 • the very human hunger for forecasts to help us navigate the future,
 • the conditionality of the future on multiple future developments,
 • our own ability to influence the future through the decisions we make,
 • the unpredictability of each development,
 • thus the futility of forecasting,
 • the importance of accepting our ignorance of the future, and thus
 • the general importance of intellectual humility.

Articles like this one and those cited in my last memo should drive home these points to everyone's
satisfaction. But rarely will people fully accept that we must make decisions regarding the
future without knowing it.

The Future as Path-Dependent

Forecasters seem to act as if the future already exists, and all we have to do is be smart enough to
discern it. But that ignores the fact that all of us - and many other influences - are constantly
creating the future through our collective activity.

In his article, Lilla stated, ". . . the post-Covid future doesn't exist. It will exist only after we have
made it." I think this is a very important concept. We might predict the future today, and we might
even correctly assess what today's conditions and actions are likely to produce in the future. But that
prediction will be shown to have been right only if no one and nothing causes the future to become
different between now and the day it arrives. Thus I'll repeat what I quoted from Lilla earlier:

 How many people fall ill with [the coronavirus] depends on how they behave, how
 we test them, how we treat them and how lucky we are in developing a vaccine.

Not only how will the virus behave, morph, travel, react to warm weather and infect, but also how
fast will we reopen the economy, how will people behave when we reopen it, and what will the virus
do at that time? Thomas Sowell, a Hoover Institution economist and social theorist, provided a
glimpse at how these things work in another field:

 Economists are often asked to predict what the economy is going to do. But
 economic predictions require predicting what politicians are going to do - and
 nothing is more unpredictable.

The unpredictability of politicians is only one of the many variables complicating the future today.
Not only can't we predict people's actions and the many other things that will determine the course
of the virus and its impact on the economy, but we also certainly can't predict when they'll take those
actions - and that will count just as much.

Which Expert to Follow?

In the memo Uncertainty, I quoted at considerable length from an article by Erik Angner. One of its
most interesting points was as follows:

 People who lack the cognitive skills required to perform a task typically also lack the
 metacognitive skills required to assess their performance. Incompetent people are at
 a double disadvantage, since they are not only incompetent but also likely unaware of
 it. (Behavioral Scientist, April 13)

By definition, people who lack the expertise in a given field required for superior judgments also lack
the expertise required to assess their level of expertise. As I mentioned, they qualify as John Kenneth
Galbraith's forecasters "who don't know they don't know."

While re-reading my memo, I realized I had left out an important further ramification. Not only do
most people fail to possess superior expertise - as well as the ability to know it - but they also lack
the ability to figure out who does have it. That's the catch: you may have to be an expert in a
field in order to be able to figure out who the true experts are. That's why research in most fields
is subjected to "peer review," meaning a review by experts (not to be confused with "a jury of one's
peers," meaning other lay citizens).

And yet, where does the buck stop on the biggest of questions, like those of today? The answer can't
be "with the experts." An article in The Wall Street Journal set out the dilemma:

 To govern, at least at the level of the presidency, is to make hard choices among
 competing options with incomplete information. Easier problems are resolved before
 they ever reach the Oval Office. Neither scientific data nor public sentiments can
 properly answer the questions that face elected officials. Both are important and must
 be integrated into the judgments that political leaders make. But neither can
 substitute for that crucial act of judgment. . . .

 The president's job, and not only in times of crisis, frequently involves listening to
 experts disagree with one another and taking responsibility for choosing among them,
 plotting a course through opportunities and dangers. The capacity to do this well
 involves its own sort of practical wisdom, an expertise in judging expertise. . . .
 ("Experts Aren't Enough," May 16-17, emphasis added)

Nowadays, like everyone else, I'm bombarded with conflicting views regarding the wisdom of
rapidly reopening the U.S. economy. Yet I recognize that not only is my opinion on that topic of
little value, but I also don't have the expertise required to know for sure whose opinion does
count. What I do know is that the last thing I should do is choose an expert because his or her
opinions agree with mine, and allow confirmation bias to affect my decision.

Further, in considering expertise, we must be leery of some dangerous tendencies in our society:

 • to confuse general intelligence with knowledge of the facts relative to a given field,
 • to confuse factual knowledge with superior insight,
 • to conflate expertise and insight with the ability to predict the future,
 • to treat experts in one field as if they're knowledgeable about all others, and
 • to credit rich and successful people with all of the above.

Thus, as I've described in previous memos, when I travel abroad, I'm often asked what I think of my
host countries' economies and their potential. "Why ask me?" I respond, "you live here." Just
because I know something about investing and the U.S., why should I necessarily have meaningful
insight into other fields and countries?

We see doctors or public health officials on TV who inveigh against quickly reopening the economy.
They may well know much more than most about the medical and public health aspects of the
coronavirus and how it should be dealt with, and their advice is likely to keep the most people alive.
But on the other hand, since they're not economists, we should assume they're only answering from
the standpoint of minimizing deaths. They may not take into consideration the importance of
restarting the economy or how to balance the two considerations.

On the other hand, we see businesspeople and economists talking about the need to reopen in order to
minimize the damage done to the economy by keeping it in a deep freeze. But what do they know
about the cost in human lives? And certainly there is no algorithm or accepted process for deciding
between the two. It's a matter of judgment, not expertise.

I recently read an article about an often-cited libertarian lawyer and legal scholar (unnamed here
because of my general practice of not criticizing individuals) who predicted in mid-March that no
more than 500 people would die from Covid-19 in the U.S. (revised upward to 5,000 when he later
found a statistical error in his analysis). While he admitted to having no medical expertise, he said he
did know more than the doctors about evolutionary theory and its applicability to the virus. His
opinion apparently carried great weight at the time in conservative quarters.

Reporters, not being experts themselves, have to consult experts in order to write their stories. But
how do they choose and vet the experts they cite? And to what extent are their selections a function
of the biases we all tend to confirm and the conclusions they want to justify? In my experience, the
more I know about a subject, the less I'm impressed with related media coverage.

And likewise, elected officials are rarely expert in the fields about which they have to make
decisions. They, too, have no choice but to depend on experts. But how do they choose their
experts? Would they ever consult an expert who belongs to the other party? I recently read a Wall

Street Journal op-ed piece by a conservative senator suggesting categorically that conservatives and
liberals are different in how they weigh re-opening the economy versus minimizing infections. Is
such a sweeping (and probably unscientific) generalization more likely to be an appropriate
observation or an example of intellectual bias stemming from ideological division?

So (a) true expertise is scarce and limited in scope, (b) expertise and predictive ability are two
different things, and (c) we all should be careful about whom we listen to and how much weight we
give to their pronouncements.

And one other thing: As Lilla wrote, "People facing immediate danger want to hear an authoritative
voice . . ." Thus they tend to put inordinate faith in a popular "prophet." And when he or she turns
out to be a less-than-perfect forecaster, and thus only human, they go looking for the next one to
anoint. They never say, "I guess forecasting doesn't work." I would say the same about people in
general, including those looking for help making money without risk or effort.

A Living Example

Finally, in a related vein, I want to mention a May 19 article by Morgan Housel of Collaborative
Fund, an insightful commentator whose philosophical and behavioral observations tend to resonate
with me. In it, he told the story of two friends with whom he regularly took the risk of skiing out of
bounds at the resort they frequented as teens. One day, his friends went out for a second run while he
begged off for no particular reason, and a freak avalanche took their lives. Here's his summation:

 I don't know if Brendan and Bryan's death actually affected how I invest. But it
 opened my eyes to the idea that there are three distinct sides of risk:

 • The odds you will get hit.
 • The average consequences of getting hit.
 • The tail-end consequences of getting hit.

 The first two are easy to grasp. It's the third that's hardest to learn, and can often
 only be learned through experience.

 We knew we were taking risks when we skied. We knew that going out of bounds
 was wrong, and that we might get caught. But at 17 years old we figured the
 consequences of risk meant our coaches might yell at us. Maybe we'd get our season
 pass revoked for the year.

 Never, not once, did we think we'd pay the ultimate price.

 But once you go through something like that, you realize that the tail-end
 consequences - the low-probability, high-impact events - are all that matter.
 In investing, the average consequences of risk make up most of the daily news
 headlines. But the tail-end consequences of risk - like pandemics, and depressions -
 are what make the pages of history books. They're all that matter. They're all you
 should focus on. We spent the last decade debating whether economic risk meant the

 Federal Reserve set interest rates at 0.25% or 0.5%. Then 36 million people lost their
 jobs in two months because of a virus. It's absurd.

 Tail-end events are all that matter.

This introduces one of the great conundrums associated with investing. Since we know nothing
about the future, we have no choice but to rely on extrapolation of past patterns. By "past patterns,"
we mean what has normally happened in the past and with what severity. And yet, there's no
reason why (a) things can't happen that differ from those that happened in the past and (b) future
events can't be worse than those of the past in terms of severity and thus consequences. While we
look to the past for guidance as to the "worst case," there's no reason why future experience should
be limited to that of the past. But without reliance on the past to inform us regarding the worst case,
we can't know much about how to invest our capital or live our lives.

Many years ago, my friend Ric Kayne pointed out that "95% of all financial history happens
within two standard deviations of normal, and everything interesting happens outside of two
standard deviations." Arguably, bubbles and crashes fall outside of two standard deviations, but
they are the events that create and eliminate the greatest fortunes. We can't know much in advance
about their nature or dimensions. Or about rare, exogenous events like pandemics.

In 2001, I wrote a memo titled You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare. At first glance, that seems
like an oxymoron. How can we prepare for something if we can't predict it? Turned around, if the
greatest extremes and most influential exogenous events are unpredictable, how can we prepare for
them? We can do so by recognizing that they inevitably will occur, and by making our portfolios
more cautious when economic developments and investor behavior render markets more vulnerable
to damage from untoward events.

That line of reasoning suggests a glimmer of good news: we may not be able to predict the
future, but that doesn't mean we're powerless to deal with it.


Memo: Not Enough.

Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly. I can never be what I ought to be
 until you are what you ought to be. This is the interrelated structure of reality. (Rev.
 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 1965)

 Justice will not be served until those who are unaffected are as outraged as those who
 are. (Benjamin Franklin, 1750)

In recent weeks we have witnessed the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis policeman
who knelt on his neck for almost nine minutes while three others stood by doing nothing, and
we have watched peaceful protests and violent riots take place in cities across America and
around the world.

We understand the death of George Floyd as one more of the glaring injustices suffered by black
people and other people of color in our country. It adds to a long list of injustices ranging from
profiling, harassment, brutality and killing at the hands of police; to disproportionate rates of
addiction, prosecution, incarceration and sentencing; to highly unequal access to education, jobs, pay,
health care, safe neighborhoods, decent housing and financial security; to having to live everyday
with demoralizing indignities and fear for one's children's lives; and lately to above average rates of
infection and fatality due to Covid-19.

Many Americans are speaking out in recognition of the grievances of black people. Leaders of
society, government and business have made public statements designed to show their support. I
want to add my voice to theirs and express my rejection of the status quo.

I've struggled to write this memo, and for that reason it's late in coming. I'm not a social
commentator, and I have little to add that is unique, only my humanity. I certainly don't feel I know
the solution or have the means to implement it. I'm afraid of coming across as holier-than-thou, and
especially of saying something that anyone finds insensitive, patronizing or hurtful. I hold good
thoughts in my heart and have always tried to be a good, thoughtful, inclusive person. But I now
know that's not enough.

I find the statistics relating to the injustices listed above appalling, the result of individual as well as
institutionalized racism going all the way back to the original sin of slavery. But behind the statistics
- unpleasant as they are - are millions of individuals suffering. While the battle for civil rights was
"won" a half-century ago, and we have talked about progress in the area of race, our society still
denies equal opportunity to many.

The teenagers denied a quality education, who can't think of things to hope for or can't imagine
achieving their dreams. The mothers who can't provide food and shelter for their families, and who
have to look on with sadness, resentment or anger at a world full of things they're denied. The
fathers who have to have "the talk" with their children, warning them to "yes, sir" the police, not
move their hands too fast and not run down the street at night. The men who are stopped and asked

why they're walking in upscale neighborhoods. The workers who don't have the luxury of ensuring
safety by socially isolating, but have to go to work in proximity to others and then come home to
close quarters and possibly infect their children or parents. The parents who have to send their
children out into the world each day without confidence that they'll come back. These thoughts
break my heart. I feel deeply for every individual forced to live under these conditions. But I
know I must do more than simply feel.

I have talked in my memos of the fact that in the latter half of the 20th century, there was an
economic "tide that lifted all boats." That tide may have enriched nations but not all people in those
nations; instead, the benefits went to some but not others. Today the economic tide is no longer
rising as strongly and the distribution is still more uneven; the advantages enjoyed by those with
education or capital are being magnified; and the inequality of outcomes is simply no longer
acceptable - hopefully to society and certainly to those getting less. It's a shame that it has taken so
long for many of us to articulate that.

Our nation cannot endure for long if some people are denied basic human rights and opportunities
simply because they belong to groups defined by color or race. This is true today and will become
even truer as we move toward being a nation where the majority are members of minorities.

Millions of minority group members suffer as a result of the supposedly "human" tendency - which
certainly is inhuman - to search for someone to look down on and thus impose a hierarchy based on
race, skin color or ethnicity. Whether for reasons of history, economic insecurity, upbringing, the
attractiveness of us-versus-them as an organizing principle, or their own bad luck or shortcomings,
many people try to make themselves feel better by subjugating or abusing others, or at a very
minimum they are indifferent to and unmoved by the suffering, deprivation and unequal lives of
others. One of the lessons of recent weeks is that we must not tolerate the damage done by racists.

They say we should "walk a mile" in the shoes of others. And yet we can't. Fortunate folks like
me can think about injustice and inequality as much as we like, but we can't live the constant
sadness, fear or rage of those who are victimized by it. I and many others have come to understand
those feelings more deeply because of the events surrounding the death of George Floyd. Now I
believe the truth will finally be seen and something will be done about it - because it's the right thing
to do and because of the growing realization that a civilization cannot long endure with people living
lives of excessively different quality. Each of us must commit to playing an active part in
dismantling systemic racism and bringing about equality.

The idea of racial justice goes hand-in-hand with the general concern over economic inequality that
has increasingly motivated parts of the political spectrum in recent years. I've written about the need
to grow the economic pie, but that's not enough. We must also repair how the pie is divided. Yes,
the free market does a technically superior job of allocating resources. But we must no longer accept
outcomes that are so unequal. Enrichment of a few and suffering for the rest is not a workable
outcome for our society. We must address things like the poor quality of public education, the
impediments to access to jobs and the limited progressivity of the tax system. The free market of
economic theory must be adapted for modern life, and there are degrees of disparity that just cannot
be accepted.

Oaktree's founders and senior management have worked to create a harmonious environment and
one of shared opportunity and reward, where there is little hierarchy. We love and treasure all of our

colleagues and want the best for them, and we revel in their success. But thoughts and words are not
enough. We all have to redouble our efforts and come up with active solutions.

In 2017, Oaktree formalized what had been for many years an informal diversity and inclusion
strategy intended to expand the population of women and underrepresented professionals at the firm.
Since then our Diversity & Inclusion Council, in partnership with other employee groups, has
launched a number of recruiting, development and training initiatives around equity, inclusion,
mentorship and bias. But there is much more to do.

Next week we will convene a meeting led by our Underrepresented Groups Council as an
opportunity to listen to our employees so as to be in position to implement programs in direct
response to the events of these past weeks and ensure that Oaktree remains a place where all
employees feel they can bring their whole selves to work. Under the banner of Our Communities
Matter, Oaktree's program for community engagement and support, we will also launch a charitable
giving program and special matching initiative to support front-line organizations nominated by our
employees. And, moving forward, I will be devoting a significant amount of my personal energy and
resources to combatting systemic racism.

It is imperative that all Americans see the recent events as a call for action and work to ensure
equality for people of color. I pledge that Oaktree and I will heed this call and listen, learn and
act.


Memo: The Anatomy of a Rally.

The background is well known to all.

 • On February 19, the U.S. stock market hit a new all-time high, with the S&P 500
 reaching 3,386.
 • Then investors began to price in the novel coronavirus, causing the market to make its
 fastest trip ever into bear territory, with the S&P 500 down 34% in five weeks to a low of
 • That low was reached on March 23, the day the Fed announced a major expansion of its
 response to the Covid-19-induced shutdown of the U.S. economy.
 • Following that, the stock market - along with the credit markets - began a recovery of
 massive proportions.

The advance started off with a bang - a 17.6% gain for the S&P 500 on March 24-26, the biggest
three-day advance in more than 80 years - and by June 8 it had lifted stocks from the low by
almost 45%. The market rose on 33 of the 53 trading days between March 24 and June 8, and on
24 of those 33 up days (including the first nine in a row), it gained more than one percent. By
June 8, the S&P 500 was down only 4.5% from the February peak and even for the year to date.

I'm writing to take a closer look at the market's rise and where it leaves us. The goal as usual
isn't to predict the future but rather to put the rally into perspective.

The questions I get are always indicative of what's going on in investors' minds at the time.
Around the early-June high and in the time since, the most frequent ones have been, "How can
stocks be doing so well during a severe pandemic and recession?" "Have the securities markets
decoupled from reality?" and "Is this irrational exuberance?"

The process of answering these questions gives me an opportunity to dissect the breathtaking
market rise. The world is combatting the greatest pandemic in a century and the worst
economic contraction of the last 80+ years. And yet the stock market - supposedly a gauge
of current conditions and a barometer regarding the future - was able to compile a record
advance and nearly recapture an all-time high that had been achieved at a time when the
economy was humming, the outlook was rosy, and the risk of a pandemic hadn't registered.
How could that be?

The possible reasons for the markets' recovery are many and, as I write this memo, the list is
growing as people find more things to take positively. (As usual, the higher the market goes, the
easier it becomes for investors to find rationalizations for a further rise.) I'll survey the apparent
reasons below:

 • Investors placed great credence in the ability of the Fed and Treasury to bring
 about an economic recovery. Investors were cheered by the steps taken to support the
 economy during the shutdown, reopen it, put people back to work and begin the return to
 normalcy. Everyone understands that the recovery will be gradual and perhaps even
 bumpy - few people are talking about a powerful V-shaped recovery these days - but a
 broad consensus developed that recovery is a sure thing.
 • As the market recovery took hold, the total number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, and the
 statistics in states like New York that had experienced the earliest and worst outbreaks,
 were going in the right direction. Daily new cases declined to very low levels in many
 places, and the signs of a second-wave rebound were limited. The curve in most
 locations clearly had been flattened.
 • In short, the worst fears - things like massive shortages of hospital beds and PPE, and an
 immediate "second wave" as soon as reopening began - weren't realized. This was cause
 for relief.
 • Rising optimism with regard to vaccines, tests and treatments added to investors'
 willingness to write off the present episode.
 • People became comfortable looking past the pandemic, considering it one-of-a-kind and
 thus not fundamental. In other words, for some it seemed easy to say, "I'm glad that's
 over (or soon will be)."
 • Positive economic announcements reinforced this conclusion. And the unprecedented
 extent of the economic carnage in the current quarter made it highly likely that we'll see
 substantial quarter-over-quarter gains in the next three quarters and dramatic year-over-
 year comparisons in mid-2021.
 • Thus, overall, investors were glad to "look across the valley" at better times ahead.
 There will be a substantial dip this year in GDP and corporate earnings, but
 investors became willing to anticipate a time - perhaps in 2022 - when full-year
 earnings for the S&P 500 would exceed what they were in 2019 and had been
 expected to be in 2020.
 • With the outlook now positive, investors likely concluded that they no longer needed to
 insist on the generous risk premiums afforded by low entry prices, meaning purchase
 prices could rise.
 • In other words, with regard to economic and corporate developments, investors
 concluded that it was "all good" or at least heading in the right direction.

Monetary and fiscal actions made an enormous contribution to the market rebound:

 • The chant went up during the week of March 23: "You can't fight the Fed."
 Certainly the evidence convinced investors that interest rates will be what the Fed wants
 them to be, and the markets will do what the Fed wants them to do. The higher the
 market went, the more people believed that it was the goal of the Fed to keep it
 going up, and that it would be able to.
 • The Fed and Treasury demonstrated their dedication to doing absolutely everything they
 could think of. Fed Chairman Jay Powell and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin acted

 early and dramatically, and Powell's assurances that "we will not run out of ammunition"
 had a very positive effect.
 • The Fed said it would continue buying securities "for as long as it takes," and since its
 actions suggested it was unconcerned about the ballooning deficits and debt, there was no
 apparent reason why its ability to keep buying had to have a limit.
 • When the Fed buys securities, it puts money into the hands of the sellers, and that money
 has to be reinvested. The reinvestment process, in turn, drives up the prices of assets
 while driving down interest rates and prospective returns.
 • There's been a related expectation that the Fed's buying might be less than
 discriminating. That is, there's no reason to believe the Fed insists on good value, high
 prospective returns, strong creditworthiness to protect it from possible defaults, or
 adequate risk premiums. Rather, its goal seems to be to keep the markets liquid and
 capital flowing freely to companies that need it. This orientation suggests it has no
 aversion to prices that overstate financial reality.
 • Everyone is convinced that interest rates will be lower for longer. (On June 10, the Fed
 strongly indicated that there will be no rate increases through 2021 and possibly 2022.)
 • Low interest rates engineered by the Fed have a multifaceted, positive impact:

 o The lower the fed funds rate, the lower the discount rate used by investors and, as
 a result, the higher the discounted present value of future cash flows. This is one
 of the ways in which declining interest rates increase asset values.
 o The risk-free rate represents the origin of the yield curve and the capital
 market line. Thus a low risk-free rate brings down demanded returns all
 along these continua. All a priori returns on potential investments are viewed in
 relation to the risk-free rate, and when it's low, even low returns seem attractive.
 o The pricing of all assets is interconnected through these relative considerations.
 Even if the Fed is buying asset A but not asset B, the rising price and falling
 expected return on A mean that B doesn't have to appear likely to return as much
 as it used to, so its price can rise, too. Thus if buying on the part of the Fed raises
 the price of investment grade debt, the price of non-investment grade debt is
 likely to follow suit. And if the Fed buys "fallen angels" that have gone from
 BBB to BB, that's likely to lift the price of B-rated bonds.
 o Lower yields on bonds means they offer less competition to stocks, etc. This
 is yet another way of saying relative considerations dominate. Fewer people
 refuse to buy just because prospective returns are low in the absolute.

 • In all, the Fed created capital market conditions that gave rise to readily available
 financing, bond issuance at record levels, and deals that were heavily oversubscribed. As
 long as money-losing companies are enabled to refinance their debt and borrow
 more, they're likely to stay alive and out of bankruptcy, regardless of how bad their
 business models might be. Zombie companies (debt service > EBITDA) and moral
 hazard don't appear to trouble the Fed.

Obviously, behavioral factors also had a significant impact:

 • Although suspended from February 19 until March 23, the ever-hopeful "buy the dips"
 mentality and belief in momentum quickly came back to life. The large percentage of
 trading in today's markets accounted for by index funds, ETFs and other entities
 that don't make value judgments probably contributes to the perpetuation of trends
 like these once they're set in motion.
 • Investors have been cheered by the fact that today's Fed seems to be offering a "Powell
 put," a successor to the Greenspan put of the late 1990s/early 2000s and the Bernanke put
 induced by the Global Financial Crisis. The belief in the Powell put stems from the view
 that the Fed has no choice but to keep the markets levitated to reassure financial market
 participants and keep the credit markets wide open for borrowers.
 • Thus FOMO - fear of missing out - seemed to take over from the prior fear of
 losing money, a transition that's always pivotal in determining the mood of the
 market.
 • Retail investors are said to have contributed substantially to the stock market's rise, and
 certainly to its most irrational aspects, like the huge gains in the stock prices of some
 bankrupt companies. In the exceptional case of Hertz, it seemed for a while that the
 buoyant stock price might enable the company to sell large amounts of new equity, even
 though the equity would probably end up worthless. (Equity capital raised by a company
 in bankruptcy is extremely likely to end up going straight to the creditors, whose
 improbability of otherwise being paid gave rise to the bankruptcy filing in the first place.)
 Large numbers of call options have been bought in recent days, and it was reported that
 small investors accounted for much of the volume. Developments like these suggest the
 influence of speculative fever and the absence of careful analysis.
 • There's a widely held theory that government benefit checks have been behind some of
 the retail investors' purchases. And that makes sense: in the last three months, there've
 been no games for sports bettors to wager on, and the stock market was the only casino
 that was open.
 • Importantly, fundamentals and valuations appeared to be of limited relevance. The
 stock prices of beneficiaries of the virus - such as digital service providers and on-line
 merchants - approached "no-price-too-high" proportions. And the stocks of companies
 in negatively affected industries like travel, restaurants, time-sharing and casinos saw
 massive recoveries, even though their businesses remained shut down or barely
 functioning. Investors were likely attracted to the former by their positive stories and to
 the latter by their huge percentage declines and the resulting low absolute dollar prices.

In all these ways, optimistic possibilities were given the benefit of the doubt, making the
terms "melt-up" and "buying panic" seem applicable. We saw numerous records smashed in
the 11-week recovery of the stock market from its March 23 low.

To sum up and over-simplify, as my partner Bruce Karsh asks in his role as devil's advocate: can
the Fed keep buying debt forever, and can its doing so keep asset prices up forever? In short,
many investors appeared to conclude that it could.

And on the Other Hand . . .

I'm not going to go to the same lengths in cataloging the negatives that exist today. Especially
given their appeal to my cautious bias, I've done so plenty in recent memos. But they certainly
have been and are out there:

 • The likelihood that, since the U.S. engaged in a more voluntary and less sweeping
 shutdown than the countries that were most successful in suppressing Covid-19, the
 reopening of the economy would trigger a second wave of the disease.
 • The simultaneous likelihood that, due to fatigue and because many consider "the cure to
 have been worse than the disease," there won't be the same enthusiasm for a new
 shutdown, meaning there may be significant stress on the health care system and/or large
 numbers of fatalities.
 • The possibility that we won't have a vaccine as soon as hoped, or that it will be
 limited in its duration or its effectiveness with various strains of the disease.
 • The reporting of actual GDP declines on the order of 20-30% for the second quarter and
 5-10% for the full year, and of an unemployment rate around 10% in late 2020 and into
 • The impact on the economic recovery if the return to work is slow, large numbers of
 small businesses never reopen, and millions of jobs turn out to be permanently lost.
 In particular, the slow return of customers and the regulations that limit the scale of
 operation may prevent newly opened public-facing businesses from being much more
 profitable than they were when they were fully closed.
 • Worry that political or financial considerations will keep the Fed and/or Treasury from
 renewing their monetary and fiscal tools to combat the economic slowdown.
 • The significant long-term damage done to state and city finances.
 • The likelihood that there'll be widespread defaults and bankruptcies despite the Fed and
 Treasury machinations.
 • The impact of potentially permanent changes to business models in industries like
 retail and travel, and on office buildings and high-density urban centers.
 • The possibility of increased inflation (or, some say, deflation), long-term damage to the
 reserve status of the dollar, a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, or an increase in the
 cost to finance our vastly expanded deficits.

There are always positives and negatives, and we can list them, consider their validity and try to
assess what they boil down to. But what matters most at a given point in time in determining
market behavior is which ones investors weight most heavily. Following the March 23 low, the
emphasis certainly was on the positives.

Does It Make Sense?

Yes, there had been something approaching a selling panic between mid-February and late
March in response to the pandemic, with the S&P 500 collapsing and the yields on high yield

bonds tripling in just four and a half weeks. And yes, the Fed and the Treasury seem to have
averted a depression and put us on the path to recovery. But was there justification for the
stock market's 45% gain from the low and the halving of high yield bond yields from their
high? And were the resulting security prices appropriate? In other words, some recovery
was not unreasonable, but was the magnitude of the one that occurred justified?

Of course, the answers to these questions lie in the eye of the beholder. If there were a
straightforward, reliable and universally accepted way to arrive at appropriate security prices, (a)
securities would likely sell at or near those prices and (b) over-optimistic highs and over-
pessimistic lows wouldn't be reached. But the most optimistic psychology is always applied
when things are thought to be going well, compounding and exaggerating the positives, and the
most depressed psychology is applied when things are going poorly, compounding the negatives.
This guarantees that extreme highs and lows will always be the eventual result in cycles, not the
exception. (For a few hundred pages more on this subject, see my 2018 book, Mastering the
Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side.)

Maybe it's the increased availability of information and opinion; maybe it's the popularization of
investing; and maybe it's the vastly increased emphasis on short-term performance. But for
whatever reason, things seem to happen faster in the markets these days. That certainly has been
true in the last four months. In the current episode, the 34% decline from the all-time high to the
crisis low took less than five weeks, and the 45% recovery to the June 8 high took only 11
weeks. These fluctuations were incredibly swift and powerful.

In my memo, On the Couch (January 2016), I wrote that:

 That's one of the crazy things: in the real world, things generally fluctuate
 between "pretty good" and "not so hot." But in the world of investing, perception
 often swings from "flawless" to "hopeless."

Thus far in 2020, the swing from flawless to hopeless and back has taken place in record
time. The challenge is to figure out what was justified and what was aberration.

The Bottom Line

I tend to return to a select few investment adages to make my points, for the simple reason that
these time-honored standards contain so much wisdom. And I've written often about the first
one shared with me by an experienced investor in the mid-1970s: the three stages of a bull
market. There's a usual progression in market advances according to this beauty, and as far as
I'm concerned, it's absolutely accurate and fully captures the reality:

 • the first stage, when only a few unusually perceptive people believe improvement is
 possible;
 • the second stage, when most investors realize that improvement is actually taking place;
 and

 • the third stage, when everyone concludes everything will get better forever.

Looking back (which is the main way we know these things), the first stage began in mid-March
and culminated on March 23. Certainly very few people were thinking about economic
improvement or stock market gains around that time. Then we passed briefly through stage two
and went straight to stage three.

Certainly by the time the interim high was reached on June 8, it felt like the market was
being valued in a way that focused on the positives, swallowed them whole, and overlooked
the negatives. That's nothing but a value judgment on my part. It's just my opinion that the
imbalance of attention to - and blanket acceptance of - the positives was overdone.

I had good company in being skeptical of the May/June gains. On May 12, with the S&P 500 up
a startling 28% from the March 23 low, Stan Druckenmiller, one of the greatest investors of all
time, said, "The risk-reward for equity is maybe as bad as I've seen in my career." The next day,
David Tepper, another investing great, said it was "maybe the second-most overvalued stock
market I've ever seen. I would say '99 was more overvalued."

On the days those two spoke, both the plain vanilla forward-looking p/e ratio and the Shiller
cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio were well above normal levels, disregarding all the
uncertainties present and the big declines that lie ahead for GDP and earnings.

And yet, over the next four weeks leading up to the June 8 high, the S&P 500 rose an additional
13%. What this proves is that either (a) "overpriced" isn't synonymous with "sure to decline
soon" or (b) Druckenmiller and Tepper were wrong. I'll go with (a). On June 8, Druckenmiller
described himself as "humbled." (In this line of work, if you never feel humbled, it just means
you haven't realistically appraised your performance.) All I know is that a lot of smart,
experienced investors concluded that asset prices had become too high for the fundamentals.
Time will tell.

 * * *

There's no way to determine for sure whether an advance has been appropriate or irrational, and
whether markets are too high or too low. But there are questions to ask:

 • Are investors weighing both the positives and the negatives dispassionately?
 • What's the probability the positive factors driving the market will prove valid (or that the
 negatives will gain in strength instead)?
 • Are the positives fundamental (value-based) or largely technical, relating to inflows of
 liquidity (i.e., cash-driven)? If the latter, is their salutary influence likely to prove
 temporary or permanent?
 • Is the market being lifted by rampant optimism?

 • Is that optimism causing investors to ignore valid counter-arguments?
 • How do valuations based on things like earnings, sales and asset values stack up against
 historical norms?

Questions like these can't tell us for a fact whether an advance has been reasonable and current
asset prices are justified. But they can assist in that assessment. They lead me to conclude that
the powerful rally we've seen has been built on optimism; has incorporated positive
expectations and overlooked potential negatives; and has been driven largely by the Fed's
injections of liquidity and the Treasury's stimulus payments, which investors assume will
bridge to a fundamental recovery and be free from highly negative second-order
consequences.

A bounce from the depressed levels of late March was warranted at some point, but it came
surprisingly early and quickly went incredibly far. The S&P 500 closed last night at 3,113, down
only 8% from an all-time high struck in trouble-free times. As such, it seems to me that the
potential for further gains from things turning out better than expected or valuations continuing
to expand doesn't fully compensate for the risk of decline from events disappointing or multiples
contracting.

In other words, the fundamental outlook may be positive on balance, but with listed
security prices where they are, the odds aren't in investors' favor.


Memo: Time for Thinking.

In the early weeks and months of the novel coronavirus pandemic and the related shutdown of the
economy, the pace of economic and health developments was frenetic. My memo writing followed
suit: one a week for the first six weeks, and a total of ten over 18 weeks. After starting off at that
rapid clip, I haven't issued a memo in more than a month - which might seem like a long interval
until you realize the norm in recent years has been only one per quarter.

The pace of events has certainly slowed over the last month or two, to the point where most of us are
struck by the sameness of our days. We stay in one place for both work and leisure; weekdays aren't
very different from weekends; and the idea of vacation seems almost irrelevant: where would we go
and what would we do? My acronym of choice is SSDD, the family-friendly translation of which is
"same stuff, different day."

But the slower pace of developments allows for more rumination, and I've come up with some
thoughts about our present circumstances.

The Health Crisis

Earlier this month, I prepared a presentation for one of our sovereign-wealth-fund clients. Their
annual forum had been expected to entail the last bit of foreign travel still on my calendar, but of
course I participated by video conference instead. I started my PowerPoint presentation with the
following metaphor:

To deal with particularly serious diseases, doctors sometimes have to take extreme action to save the
patient: they induce a coma to permit the administration of harsh remedies, maintain life support,
treat the disease, and bring the patient back to consciousness.

In the case of Covid-19, one of the worst pandemics of the last century, policymakers were similarly
required to take desperate measures. Upon the eruption of the disease, epidemiologists told us it
would spread exponentially, possibly killing millions.

In the absence of a vaccine, the only way to deal with the outbreak was to prevent those who had
contracted the disease from spreading it to others. In order to do so, the authorities decided it was
necessary to put the patient into a coma. Thus the economy was shut down to minimize interpersonal
contact. Stores, restaurants, schools, places of worship, and entertainment and sports venues were
ordered closed, travel was restricted, and people were told to work from home whenever possible.
As we all know, the U.S. economy was largely frozen, causing 54 million Americans to file for
unemployment benefits since March 21 and second-quarter GDP to shrink by an annualized 32.9%,
three times the greatest quarterly decline in the 70 years of recorded quarterly history. (Please see

the end of this memo for postscript in which I discuss the significance of that reported 32.9%
decline.)

The comatose patient - the economy - required life-support, and the Fed and Treasury supplied it.
They rushed in with trillions of dollars to keep the patient alive: payments to individuals and
households; grants to distressed industries; general business loans and tax relief; loans to small
businesses; aid to states, hospitals and veterans' care; and guarantees for money market funds and
commercial paper. These are sometimes described as stimulus programs, but that's a misnomer: they
were support payments designed to replace cash that normally would have circulated throughout the
economy.

With the economy comatose and on life support, elected officials proceeded to administer the cure.
In the absence of a vaccine, this was designed to take the form of testing to identify those who had
the disease and tracing to identify those with whom they'd come into contact; quarantining and social
distancing to keep them separate from others; and masking to prevent the asymptomatic sick from
infecting the healthy.

When the number of new cases, hospitalizations and deaths declined, and in view of the desirability
of allowing economic activity to resume, those in charge turned to resuscitating the patient. The
economy began to reopen in May, supported by a near-zero base interest rate and the Fed's provision
of abundant liquidity, and the initial response was positive. Retail sales moved up 17.7% in May
(after a 22.3% decline in March/April), and the unemployment rate fell to 11.1% in June, from a peak
suspected to have been near 20%. Case closed.

Failure to Fix It

If only it was that simple. Unfortunately, in some instances the reopening took place before the
number of new cases had declined enough for the spread of Covid-19 to be brought under control,
and people in areas that had been spared in the early days acted cavalierly, allowing the disease to
regain a foothold in their regions. Borrowing from Churchill (who probably borrowed it from
Machiavelli), people who regulate economies and manage businesses say "never let a good crisis go
to waste." But in the case of Covid-19, the U.S. did just that.

The nations of Asia and Europe had the earliest outbreaks, but they took swift and stern action -
some say Draconian - including enforcing isolation and fining violators. But they got the disease
under control. Unfortunately, a number of elements combined to weaken the actions taken in the
U.S. and permit a resurgence of the disease:

 • The absence of uniform national policies on shutdowns, social distancing, masking and re-
 opening.
 • Inadequate support for the recommendations of health professionals and scientists.
 • The foolhardiness of youth, who were misled by early statistics into believing they were
 immune.
 • "National hubris and belief in American exceptionalism," according to Martha L. Lincoln, a
 medical anthropologist and historian. As one of our elected leaders stated on March 11, "The
 virus will not have a chance against us."

 • The turning of masking and social distancing into partisan issues, raising suspicion that the
 virus is a hoax and protective rules an infringement of personal freedom.
 • The politicization of the difficult choice between reopening the economy and minimizing
 infections. The states currently seeing the greatest increases in new cases are mostly ones
 that emphasized the former over the latter.

Clearly, society reopened and people began to congregate before the virus was reduced to
controllable levels, allowing it to reemerge. And shutting down to fight the disease in some locations
but not others was dangerous when people can travel freely among them. Now contact tracing - a
very important weapon in the arsenal of the countries that got the spread of Covid-19 under control -
is said to have been rendered useless in the U.S. by the sheer number of people who've been infected.

So rather than the desired progression of infection, coma, life support, treatment, cure and
resuscitation, we've had a progression of infection, coma, life support, treatment and resuscitation.
The cure is missing. Because much of America reopened before the disease was brought fully under
control, the early lockdowns went to waste, and the current number of daily new cases far exceeds
that of March and April. RockCreek Group's July 27 report put it well:

 By reopening when COVID-19 was still spreading and pervasive in many places, the
 US may have gotten the worst of both worlds: a sharp recession, which will leave
 scars in terms of business closures, bankruptcies and disrupted lives, and continued
 disease, that will be difficult if not impossible to eradicate, in the absence of effective
 treatments and vaccines.

Thus, on July 30, The New York Times reported as follows:

 "The path forward for the economy is extraordinarily uncertain and will depend in
 large part on our success in keeping the virus in check," [Fed Chairman Jerome]
 Powell said at a news conference following the Fed's two-day meeting, noting that
 infections have surged since late June and the "pace of recovery looks like it has
 slowed."

 Mr. Powell said policymakers needed more data before drawing firm conclusions
 about the scope of the pullback, but he noted that debit and credit card spending
 were slowing and labor market indicators suggested that recent job gains might
 be weakening. (Emphasis added)

Not a Cycle

Two of the questions I get most often these days are, "What kind of cycle are we in?" and "Where do
we stand in it?" My main response is that the developments of the last five months are non-cyclical
in nature, and thus not subject to the usual cycle analysis.

The normal cycle starts off from an economic and market low; overcomes psychological and capital
market headwinds; benefits from gathering strength in the economy; witnesses corporate results that
exceed expectations; is amplified by optimistic corporate decisions; is reinforced by increasingly
positive investor sentiment; and thus fosters rising prices for stocks and other risk assets until they

become excessive at the top (and vice versa on the downside). But in the current case, a moderate
recovery - marked by reasonable growth, realistic expectations, an absence of corporate
overexpansion and a lack of investor euphoria - was struck down by an unexpected meteor
strike.

People also ask what's different about this episode from those I've lived through in the past.

 • As described above, the normal cyclical progression of ups and downs - and the normal
 series of events, each of which causes the next - had nothing to do with it. The current
 downturn didn't result from excessively optimistic business decisions or too-high growth
 expectations that were disappointed, but rather from an exogenous event that brought a
 sudden end to the expansion. Thus the factors that result in and normally characterize a
 cyclical recovery - most of all the recognition that negativism is excessive and stimulative
 measures are required to turn things around - are unlikely to do the trick this time. Since the
 root cause of the current problem is medical rather than economic, merely cutting interest
 rates and flooding the economy with liquidity may not kickstart a recovery as usual. Rather,
 the virus has to be brought under control.

 • Additionally, there may be permanent changes to our way of life - altering things like travel,
 business's reliance on offices, and activities involving crowds - that affect the path of
 recovery.

 • Something else that keeps me from thinking about the coming months as a normal recovery
 is that just five months after the onset of the pandemic in the U.S., and just a few months
 after the bottom was reached in the market and the economy, investor optimism has been
 restored and the prices of many assets have regained their prior highs. That's a much faster
 recovery than normal by historic standards, and it seems to give short shrift to the conditions
 that continue to challenge the economy.

 • Lastly, the effects this time are highly uneven, with people of color and low-income
 Americans affected disproportionately, at a time of heightened sensitivity to this issue.
 They're more likely to have lost their jobs and less likely to have enjoyed gains in net worth
 from asset appreciation - not to mention their higher rates of infection and death due to the
 pandemic. Whites and white-collar workers and professionals, on the other hand, are more
 likely to have kept their jobs and to have benefited from asset price inflation through home
 ownership and participation in the stock market.

I'm convinced cycles will continue to occur over time, highlighted by excessive movements away
from "normal" and toward extremes - both high and low - that are later followed by corrections back
toward normalcy, and through it to excesses in the opposite direction. But that's not to say that
every event in the economy or markets is cyclical. The pandemic is not.

What Shape Are We In?

Another frequent question is, "What shape will the economic recovery take?" Everyone has his or
her favorite candidate: a W, an L, a U or maybe a Nike Swoosh. Of course, the one we hear the most

about is a V. While the terminology used isn't crucial, and may basically be just a matter of
semantics, I find the label "V-shaped" misleading.

Of all the people who use the label "V-shaped" to describe this recovery, I don't think I've ever seen
anyone define it. To me, a "V" has to satisfy two important requirements:

 • First, the essential nature of the pattern has to be down-and-up, meaning it doesn't spend
 much time skating along the bottom. One that stays down for a while, on the other hand,
 would be called U-shaped or what in the 1970s we called saucer-shaped.
 • Second, when I hear "V," it seems to me the two sides should be basically symmetrical.
 That is, the economy should come back at a rate similar to that at which it went down.

That second criterion makes me doubt that the current recovery will be a V. The U.S. economy
deteriorated in the second quarter at the highest annualized rate in history, almost 33%, and it's
certainly not going to come back at the same rate (leaving aside the fact that it takes a 49% gain to
offset a 33% decline).

Most observers seem to think quarterly U.S. GDP will regain its level in the corresponding quarter in
2019 sometime between the fourth quarter of 2020 and the middle of 2021. That means it'll take at
least until 2021 for annual GDP to equal or exceed 2019's. Whereas I think history will show that
the decline took place over just a few months (perhaps only February, March and April), the recovery
may take 8 to 14 months. And the rate of unemployment is unlikely to return to its recent low of
3.5% for years, if ever.

 • The renewed spike of Covid-19 cases has caused the reopening of the U.S. economy in some
 areas to be delayed or reversed.
 • The emergence of politics as the general election approaches decreases, in my opinion, the
 likelihood that future support payments will be as generous as the early rounds.
 • People with the choice may not return to the office for several months, holding back both
 overall productivity and the recovery of businesses that exist to serve office populations.
 • People who are reliant on mass transit to commute to work - or on schools to care for their
 kids - may be slower to return to work than they otherwise would be.
 • Some industries whose business models have been affected - like airlines, resorts and
 entertainment - may take years to recover to their prior levels.
 • Many restaurants and other small businesses may never reopen.
 • With industries evolving, more being done digitally and management teams having had an
 opportunity to watch their companies function with fewer people, some jobs may never
 return.
 • Finally, the pandemic has accelerated preexisting trends such as automation and the decline
 of brick-and-mortar retail, and thus their contribution to job losses.

Fast down and slow up: to me, that's no V. I prefer to think of it as a checkmark, like this:

The Markets and the Fed

The U.S. stock market continues its ascent, and as measured by the S&P 500, it's just about back to
where all this started: the all-time record of 3,386 attained on February 19. The market for corporate
credit has been strong as well. Here's the macro situation, hopefully reduced to the bare essentials:

The positives:

 • The reduction of interest rates to near zero has increased the value of investment assets and
 spurred a global bidding war that has raised their prices.
 • The Fed has flooded the economy and the markets with liquidity and other forms of support
 for individuals, companies and institutions.
 • The Fed and the Treasury seem willing to provide support and stimulus well into the future.

The negatives:

 • The economy has suffered the greatest quarterly setback in history.
 • A second spike is complicating efforts to re-open the economy.

In short, titanic forces are arrayed against each other: Fed and Treasury versus disease and
recession. Which will win?

No one knows about the long run, but it's clear which has come out on top so far. Lower interest
rates increase the discounted present value of future cash flows and reduce the a priori return
demanded from every investment. In layman's terms, when the fed funds rate is zero, 6% bonds look
like a giveaway, so buyers bid them up until they yield less (thus I believe 97% of outstanding bonds
yield less than 5% today, and 80% yield less than 1%). And Fed buying drives up the price of
financial assets and puts money into sellers' hands with which they can buy other assets, further
elevating prices. For all these reasons, monetary actions have come out on top so far, validating the
old maxim that "you can't fight the Fed."

But what does it mean if the prices of stocks and listed credit instruments are where they are not
primarily for fundamental reasons - such as current earnings and the outlook for future gains - but
rather in large part because of the Fed's buying, its injection of liquidity, and the resultant low cost of
capital and low demanded returns? If high asset prices are substantially the result of tailwinds
from technical factors such as these, does it mean those actions have to be continued in order
for asset prices to remain high, and that if the Fed reduces its activity, those prices will fall?
And that leads to the ultimate question (as Bruce Karsh seems to ask daily): can the Fed keep it
up forever? Are there any limits on its ability to create bank reserves, buy assets and expand its
balance sheet? And are there limits on the Treasury's willingness to run deficits, now that it has
taken this year's to $4 trillion and shown an inclination to go well beyond that?

Since I'm out of my depth regarding the last three questions, I've again turned to my friend Randall
Kroszner, Deputy Dean for Executive Programs at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business. From 2006 to 2009, Randy was a member of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal

Reserve System and accordingly a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee. Here's
his reply:

 There is no limit on the ability of a central bank to create reserves, as long as
 someone is willing - or through government edicts, forced - to take them. This was
 true in the extreme circumstances of Weimer Germany, Brazil in the 1970s/80s, and
 it is true Zimbabwe today, as well as in the much more benign current situation in
 Japan. The key question is the impact of that reserve creation on money supply and
 the demand for money. Treasury's appetite for deficit financing will remain high as
 long as real and nominal interest rates remain low.

In the last five months, the Fed has swollen its balance sheet by $3 trillion and the Treasury has
added $3 trillion to the expected deficit, for a total increase of liquidity in the economy of $6 trillion,
probably with more to come. It's normal to assume that an increase in liquidity on that order will
increase the demand for goods relative to the supply, bringing on increased inflation, as it already has
for financial assets. (Note, however, that even with interest rates low for a decade and near zero
today, inflation hasn't come close to the Fed's target of 2%. If growth remains weak and inflation
stays low, the Fed is likely to believe it can continue an activist regime.) Here's Randy Kroszner's
view:

 I think this is the key point: whether it is Japan, where the BoJ's balance sheet
 exceeds 100 percent of GDP and continues to grow rapidly, or the ECB with a
 balance sheet of more than 50 percent of Eurozone GDP and growing, or the Fed with
 a balance sheet of just over a third of US GDP and growing, inflation has been below
 the 2 percent target, and expectations of inflation over short and long horizons remain
 low. Even when the U.S. was growing 2-3 percent pre-Covid, we didn't see an
 uptick in inflation or inflation expectations. As long as there continues to be a very
 large demand for super liquid safe assets like bank reserves and cash, the central
 banks can maintain large balance sheets - and even increase them - without a sharp
 increase in money supply that ignites inflation. The ongoing uncertainty over the
 course of the virus and the policy responses will undoubtedly keep the demand for
 safe liquid assets high for some time.

It's also normal to assume that monetary expansion like this can lead to a weaker dollar, downgrades
of the U.S.'s creditworthiness by rating agencies, higher interest costs on national debt, and/or
jeopardy to the dollar's status as the world's reserve currency. All these things could increase the
difficulty of servicing the U.S.'s expanded national debt, feeding back into still-higher deficits. This
isn't pie-in-the-sky, since between March (when the Fed/Treasury programs were announced)
and the end of July, the dollar depreciated by 9% versus a basket of currencies. That could be
related to the dollar's tendency to benefit from flight to quality, which probably reached its apex in
March, and to do less well when fear recedes. But it's still down 3% for the year to date and
particularly weak in July.

These are the traditional concerns with regard to monetary expansion. Modern Monetary Theory
("MMT") stands ready to refute them. The actual outcome is unknowable. But does it really make
sense that bank reserves, the Fed balance sheet and the federal deficit can be increased ad
infinitum without negative effects? My answer is the usual: we'll see. But I'll let Randy Kroszner
have the last word on the subject:

 I always find it difficult to understand MMT - it seems to suggest that there isn't a
 budget constraint. I'm very old-fashioned about that and still believe in them.
 Countries like Argentina, Zimbabwe, etc. show that the less "modern" monetary
 theory still applies, at least in those places. There is a delicate balancing act:
 Markets certainly allow credible governments like Japan and the US to borrow
 enormous amounts without much concern, but the key issue is what could
 undermine that credibility? If that does happen, the consequences certainly
 could be titanic. (Emphasis added)

The Bull Case

One thing the pandemic has given many of us is lots of time for reading and thinking, and I've had a
chance to bone up on some of the arguments supporting current stock and bond market prices. Given
my "value" leanings and acknowledged conservative bias, I found it a valuable process. And it was
important to undertake it, since it certainly can't be said that caution regarding the damaged economy
and elevated p/e ratios has been rewarded of late.

As for the stock market, several points are advanced to justify the current level - which is so
mystifying to value investors - and assert its bright future:

The first is that many investors have underestimated the impact of low rates on valuations. In
short, what should the stock market yield? Not its dividend yield, but its earnings yield: the ratio
of earnings to price (that is, p/e inverted). Simplistically, when Treasurys yield less than 1% and you
add in the traditional equity premium, perhaps the earnings yield should be 4%. That yield of 4/100
suggests a p/e ratio (the inverse) of 100/4, or 25. Thus the S&P 500 shouldn't trade at its traditional
16 times earnings, but roughly 50% higher.

Even that, it's said, understates the case, because it ignores the fact that companies' earnings grow,
while bond interest doesn't. Thus the demanded return on stocks shouldn't be (bond yield + equity
premium) as suggested above, but rather (bond yield + equity premium - growth). If the earnings on
the S&P 500 will grow to eternity at 2% per year, for example, the right earnings yield isn't 4%, but
2% (for a p/e ratio of 50). And, mathematically, for a company whose growth rate exceeds the sum
of the bond yield and the equity premium, the right p/e ratio is infinity. On that basis, stocks may
have a long way to go.

The rest of the bulls' arguments mostly surround the exceptional nature of the market-leading tech
companies:

 • They grow much faster than the large companies of the past, and their growth is much less
 likely to prove cyclical.
 • In fact, the current crisis, with the accompanying movement on-line of a larger share of
 everyday life, has (a) served to accelerate their growth or (b) given them an opportunity to
 demonstrate their ability to grow regardless of conditions in the environment.
 • They have scale, technological advantages and network effects that give them much greater
 protection against competition than their old-economy predecessors enjoyed.

 (Correspondingly, however, regulatory efforts to restrain their market power represent their
 greatest risk.)
 • Thanks to the role of intellectual property as the main "raw material" in their products, most
 of these companies can create additional units for sale at very low marginal cost.
 • Likewise, they can grow without much additional capital, if any (all five of the top tech firms
 are in a "net cash" position, meaning their cash holdings exceed their debt).
 • Finally , their high p/e ratios today mean less than usual, since these tech champions are
 vastly under-reporting earnings: if they were to cut back on things like customer-acquisition
 costs and R&D and settle for lower (but still rapid) growth, they could report far higher
 earnings.

Thus, it's said, the skeptics seriously underestimate the ability of the technological leaders to
grow, and to pull up the overall growth rate for the universe of common stocks. They grow
every day, and so does their representation in the equity indices and in corporate America, creating a
virtuous circle.

Thus, with these dominant large-cap tech companies making up a large and growing percentage of
the stock market, to be bearish one has to have a thesis on why they should fall. Or else you would
have to bet on the non-tech sectors to decline a great deal and pull down the averages - despite the
fact that they're already down a lot.

The S&P 500 is basically flat on the year, but without FAAMG (Facebook, Apple, Amazon,
Microsoft and Google, its five heaviest-weighted components) and other tech/software stocks, it
would be considerably lower. (The top five are up by an average of 36% so far this year, while the
median change for all 500 stocks is minus 11%.) Does it make sense that the FAAMG-plus-
tech/software stocks are up a lot in this context? It seems that it does, because (a) Covid-19 has
accelerated tech adoption in many ways, and thus these companies' growth, and (b) today's ultra-low
interest rates justify much higher p/e ratios (see above). If instead the tech giants were flat against
this backdrop - or had just performed in line with the rest of the index - we'd probably say
something was wrong.

I don't know whether these bullish arguments are absolutely correct or merely have gained
luster thanks to their having driven the 46% gain of the S&P 500 over the last four months.
Regardless, I want to share the bull case as a public service and because it has obvious merit . . . and
certainly has won out thus far.

 * * *

So let's try to find a bottom line:

 • On one hand, we have the surprisingly rapid recovery of the stock and credit markets to
 roughly their all-time highs, despite the fact that the spread of Covid-19 hasn't been halted,
 and that it will take a good number of months for the economy to merely return to its 2019
 level (and even longer for it to give rise to the earnings that were anticipated at the time those
 market highs were first reached). Thus p/e ratios are unusually high today and debt yields are

 at unprecedented lows. Extreme valuations like these are usually justified with protests that
 "this time it's different," four words that tend to get investors into trouble.

 • On the other hand, John Templeton allowed that when people say things are different,
 20% of the time they're right. And in a memo on this subject in June of last year, I wrote,
 "in areas like technology and digital business models, I'd bet things will be different more
 than the 20% of the time Templeton cited." It certainly can be argued that the tech
 champions of today are smarter and stronger and enjoy bigger leads than the big companies
 of the past, and that they have created virtuous circles for themselves that will bring rapid
 growth for decades, justifying valuations well above past norms. Today's ultra-low interest
 rates further justify unusually high valuations, and they're unlikely to rise anytime soon.

 • But on the third hand, even the best companies' stocks can become overpriced, and in
 fact they're often the stocks most likely to do so. When I first entered the business in 1968,
 the companies of the Nifty Fifty - deploying modern wonders like computing (IBM) and dry
 copying (Xerox) - were likewise expected to outgrow the rest and prove impervious to
 competition and economic cycles, and thus were awarded unprecedented multiples. In the
 next five years, their stockholders lost almost all their money.

For these reasons and more, I find today's stock and credit markets opaque . . . as usual.

We reach our conclusions, limited by the inadequacy of our foresight and influenced by our
optimistic or pessimistic biases. And we learn from experience how hard it is to get the answer right.
That leads me to end with a great bit of wisdom from Charlie Munger concerning the process of
unlocking the mysteries of the markets: "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is
stupid."

P.s.: We were all struck by the enormity of the reported decline in second quarter real GDP. Before
now, no one's ever seen an economy contract by one-third in three months! However, thinking
about the results in connection with writing this memo raised some questions:

 • I had immediately assumed Q2 GDP was down $1.81 trillion, or 32.9%, from Q2 of last year.
 But the actual decline was only $0.45T, from $4.76T to $4.31T, or 9.5%.
 • Could it have been a decline of $1.81T from Q1's $4.63T, bringing Q2 GDP to $2.82T? But
 going from $4.63T to $2.82T would mean a decline of 39.1%. And anyway, that couldn't
 have been the case, since actual Q2 GDP was $4.31T.
 • Or was it a projected drop of $1.81T from actual 2019 full-year GDP of $19.09T? No, that
 would represent a decline of only 9.5%.
I couldn't make sense of the numbers, so I consulted Conrad DeQuadros of Brean Capital for help
understanding them. I found his answer surprising, and you might as well.

Have you thought about what the reported 32.9% decline in second quarter GDP really means?
Answer: it's the percentage by which 1Q2021 GDP would be below 1Q2020 GDP if GDP were
to decline in the next three quarters at the same rate as it did in 2Q2020. If that seems incredibly
complex, so was Conrad's explanation:

 • Actual second quarter real GDP (without seasonal adjustment or annualization) was $4.31
 trillion. That was down 7.0% from $4.63T in Q1 on the same basis.
 • If the three subsequent quarters were also down 7.0% from quarter to quarter, 3Q2020 would
 be $4.00T, 4Q2020 would be $3.72T, and 1Q2021 would be $3.46T. (These are figures
 you'd never see, since they omit seasonal adjustment, annualization and adjustment for
 inflation. But I think they present a fair if not technically correct picture for these purposes.)
 • It's that figure of $3.46T for 1Q2021 GDP that - after annualization and adjustments
 for seasonality and inflation - would be 32.9% below GDP in 1Q2020.
 • Interestingly, after the assumed declines, GDP in the four quarters 2Q2020 through 1Q2021
 (as enumerated above) would sum to $15.49T for the year. But that would be down only
 18.9% from the actual total of $19.11T in the four prior quarters (2Q2019 through 1Q2020).

So, again, the 32.9% reported decline in Q2 is the difference between 1Q2020 GDP and projected
1Q2021 GDP assuming quarterly GDP continues to fall at the 2Q2020 rate. But nobody expects that
to happen. Which means the 32.9% is a highly misleading, exaggerated figure. Nothing went down
by one-third, and nothing is likely to do so.

It's the same for nominal GDP. The decline in GDP from 1Q2020 to 2Q2020 was reported as
$2.15T, or 34.3%, but those also are annualized figures. The $2.15T decline is the difference
between 1Q2020 annualized GDP of $21.56T and 2Q2020 annualized GDP of $19.41T. But the
decline in actual quarterly nominal GDP from Q1 to Q2 was only $0.38T (from $5.25T to $4.87T),
or 7.2%. So what do the reported annualized Q2 declines of $2.15T and 34.3% mean? Also nothing.

In the business world, we'd be looking at the relationship between GDP in 2Q2020 and what it was
in 2Q2019. As mentioned above, real Q2 GDP fell from $4.76T in 2019 to $4.31T in 2020, for a
decline of 9.5%. Nominal Q2 GDP fell from $5.36T in 2019 to $4.87T in 2020, down 9.1%.
Obviously, neither of these year-over-year declines bears any resemblance to the reported
32.9% decline.

Here's Conrad's conclusion:

 Annualization is useful in normal times for comparing a quarter to the recent prior
 years, but not very useful for current circumstances. . . . Most other major economies
 do not report annualized changes in GDP (for example, when the change in Eurozone
 GDP is reported [on August 3], it will be a non-annualized change). It is not
 reasonable to expect the second quarter's drop to continue for a year.

Finally, at year-end, the GDP that's reported for each year is the sum of the actual dollar
GDP in its four quarters (without annualization or seasonal adjustment). Thus, when GDP is
reported for 2020, it's unlikely to show a decline of 32.9% or anything like it. After
reported quarter-over-quarter declines in annualized GDP of 5.0% in Q1 and 32.9% in Q2,
Morgan Stanley (for example) expects increases of 21.3% in Q3 and 0.3% in Q4. If we were
to chain those quarterly percentage changes, as we do with quarterly portfolio returns, we

would get a decline for the year of 22.5%. Or if we (incorrectly) added them together,
ignoring the impact of compounding, we would get a decline of 16.3%. But MS expects
full-year 2020 GDP to be down only 5.3% year-over-year and 6.2% Q4-over-Q4.

So what I've learned is that annualized quarter-over-quarter changes are quite meaningless,
including Q2's reported decline of 32.9%.


Memo: Coming into Focus.

Roughly two months have passed since my last memo, Time for Thinking, and still not much has
changed in the economy or the markets. The toll from Covid-19 continues to rise, the economic outlook
is largely the same, vaccines remain some time off, and the S&P 500 is back where it was in early
August. So I'll repeat what I said then: it's mainly been time for thinking. Fortunately, the more I've
thought about the issues, the more things have come into focus for me. Thus, I'm going to use this
memo to go into greater detail on a few topics.

The Prerequisite

In Time for Thinking I talked about the fact that I don't consider this year's developments to be cyclical.
You could say, "Why not? The economy and the markets went down, and now they're recovering. Isn't
that a cycle?" What I really mean is that this is very different from a normal cycle, and I've figured out a
way to better explain that, borrowing a bit of what I said in my 2018 book, Mastering the Market Cycle.

Most of the up-cycles I've witnessed occurred because things were going well in the economy, causing
psychology and decision-making to become increasingly optimistic and eventually euphoric.
Corporations favored expansion, stock prices rose and financial innovation became possible, even
encouraged. Eventually, productive capacity exceeded what was needed, stock prices exceeded
underlying value, and shaky investment innovations were embraced. When these trends outstripped the
fundamentals and became unsustainable, the result was a downturn. Often a recession triggered a market
correction, and sometimes the impact of that recession was reinforced by negative exogenous events that
further darkened the previously-blue skies.

A good example is the first non-investment grade debt crisis Bruce Karsh and I managed through, in
1990-91. There was a recession, exacerbated by the shock of going to war to help Kuwait repel an
invasion by Iraq. The newly developed high yield bond market experienced its first major spate of
defaults, the result of a recession and credit crunch and exacerbated by the prosecution of Michael Milken
and the failure of Drexel Burnham, precluding remedial bond exchanges that otherwise might have helped
companies stay alive. Stocks declined, but high yield bonds went into free-fall. Notably, many of the
prominent LBOs of the 1980s - which had been financed with perhaps 95% or so of debt - went
bankrupt. Investor psychology collapsed and bondholders headed for the exits.

A collapsing economy needs a good dose of stimulus to pull it out of its swoon, and that's what occurred.
Usually that's enough. Eventually the economy recovers; consumers resume buying; investors regain
their equilibrium - some even sense the bargains that have been made available; and the upswing takes
the economy back toward good health . . . and the cyclical process continues.

So, most of the time, downturns stem primarily from economic weakness, and they are repaired with
economic tools. But this episode is different. It was caused by an exogenous, non-economic
development, the pandemic. The recession - rather than being the cause - was the result: a closure of
business induced intentionally in order to minimize inter-personal contact and halt the spread of the
disease.

Thus, this down-cycle cannot be fully cured merely through the application of economic stimulus.
Rather, the root cause has to be repaired, and that means the disease has to be brought under
control. An effective vaccine will do this - in time - but healthy behavior will be required in the
meantime. Spikes like much of Europe is seeing represent something of a step backward in this regard.

And even with the disease controlled, economic stimulus is unlikely to reverse all the damage. The
trauma has been deep, and the impact may not be easily shaken off. Large firms will continue to
automate and streamline. Large numbers of smaller businesses - such as restaurants, bars and shops -
will never re-open. Thus millions of people will not be rehired into the jobs they formerly held. For this
reason, the expectations with regard to economic recovery have to be realistic. To me, as I've said, "V-
shape" has too positive a connotation.

The Need for Further Assistance

One of the things weighing on the recovery is the matter of help from Washington. Whereas the Treasury
was able to announce aggressive spending programs in the spring, there has been no new package here in
the fall. Partisan differences have arisen regarding the size of a package and its contents. Further, we're
so close to the upcoming election - less than a month away - that neither side wants to give the other
anything that might be described as a victory.

But this is not an academic matter. The trillions of dollars paid out thus far were not stimulus payments,
but support. They weren't made to get the recipients to spend so much as to keep them and the economy
alive. In short, the amounts distributed - to the unemployed, families with incomes below $100,000,
companies and institutions - were designed to replace lost income and maintain, rather than stimulate, the
economy. Individuals got money so they could buy the necessities of life. Companies got money to
replace lost revenues, so they could continue to employ people. These needs have not dried up, even as
the disease has ground on and the supplemental unemployment benefits have expired.

As one of my Oaktree colleagues wrote me last week, "I was chatting today with the owner of a small
movie theater chain. One wouldn't trade places. All of their theaters in California are closed; the ones
out of state are operating with high costs and no patrons; and there is virtually no product to attract
audiences. And the lenders and landlords are banging on the door."

Individuals have problems, too. According to Morning Brew on September 25:

 With the economy still in the basement, people are straining to pay their mortgages.
 According to industry analyst Keith Jurow, "several million" people will have gone nine
 months without making a payment when the Federal Housing Finance Agency's
 foreclosure and eviction moratorium expires at the end of the year.

 17% of FHA-insured mortgages were delinquent in July, per the Department of Housing
 and Urban Development. In NYC, 27.2% of mortgages were.

Another pressing need can be found at state and local governments. Their revenues have withered as
the take from taxes and fees has declined. But their need to spend is unabated - they're not enjoying
any savings in connection with the slower economy - and in fact it has grown. Police, firefighters and
EMTs are no less essential, and the need for health care and family services has only increased. And
yet, unlike

the federal government, cities and states can't engage in unlimited deficit spending since they can't print
money or issue seemingly unlimited amounts of debt. Like companies and individuals, they need
significant aid.

On September 24, The Wall Street Journal reported on Fed officials' testimony to Congress:

 The recovery would move along faster "if there is support coming both from Congress
 and from the Fed," Chairman Jerome Powell said during the second of three days of
 congressional testimony Wednesday.

 Chicago Fed President Charles Evans told reporters that his projection that the
 unemployment rate would fall below 6% by the end of next year had been premised on
 around $1 trillion in additional fiscal relief.

 "If that doesn't happen, then I think it's going to be a lot harder, and much more unlikely
 that we make that much progress," he said. . . .

 "The power of fiscal policy is really unequaled by anything else," Mr. Powell told
 lawmakers on a House panel overseeing the U.S. response to the coronavirus. (Emphasis
 added)

The same day, Dennis DeBusschere of Evercore ISI wrote:

 On monetary policy, the Fed is not out of bullets and still has quasi-fiscal programs like
 the Main Street Lending Program (MLSP) and the Municipal Liquidity Facility (MLF).
 But as our friends at Macro Policy Partners pointed out, "Powell all but waved the white
 flag on those programs in his remarks, which is troubling. The Fed has already adopted a
 'set it and forget it' stance on rates and QE, and these tools are not as well-suited to the
 current economic challenges as MSLP and MLF." So either there is a fiscal package
 soon and risk assets move higher, or inflation expectations trend lower, forcing the
 Fed to use more bullets. Our hunch is the Fed will be forced to react. (Emphasis added)

The economic recovery everyone's counting on is not an independent event, unaffected by
developments. Rather, it is highly dependent on progress against the disease, as described above,
but also on the continuation of fiscal expenditures in the interim. Sadly, the outlook for action in this
latter regard is not good. Partisan enmity is at a level I've never seen before, especially given the fight
over the Supreme Court nomination. With the two houses of Congress in the hands of warring parties, I'd
be pleasantly surprised if they can agree on anything before the election.

The bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus in the House restarted the negotiations a couple of weeks ago by
surfacing a proposal that would come out in the middle between the Democrats' target of $3 trillion and
the Republicans' willingness to spend $500 million, and compromise on the individual components as
well. [Note: I'm a national co-chair of No Labels, the organization that supports the caucus and the goal
of bipartisan cooperation.] Let's be hopeful that something can be done to appropriate needed aid even
while the election campaign is underway.

The Power of Interest Rates

One of the biggest financial stories of 2020 is the powerful market rally that began in late March and
quickly caused the equity indices to regain the ground they had lost and in some cases reach new highs.
And the more I think about it, the more credit I attribute to the low level of interest rates.

As you know, the Fed reduced the fed funds rate - the base rate that influences many other interest rates -
by a half-percent on March 3, from 1.50-1.75% to 1.00-1.25%, and by an additional percent on March 15,
to 0-0.25%. Low rates like those of today exert influence in a broad variety of ways. I touched on a few
of them in my last memo, but I'm going to undertake a fuller treatment of the subject here.

First, there's the stimulative effect of low interest rates. This is probably the aspect people think of
first when there's a rate cut. In short, everything that entails financing is made more attractive. It
becomes cheaper to buy a house because the monthly mortgage payment is smaller. Ditto for cars and
boats. Monthly payments on existing adjustable-rate mortgages decline, leaving consumers more
disposable income. Corporate interest expense declines as well, reducing the cost of a new factory or
production line. A faster-growing economy improves the general mood and makes transactions more
likely. And fear of missing out on the low rates gives people a reason to act now, accelerating
transactions that might otherwise have taken place in the future.

Second, lower rates increase the discounted present value of future cash flows. In the most
theoretical sense, the current value of an asset is the discounted present value of the cash flows it will
produce in the future. We discount future cash flows because a dollar to be received in the future isn't
worth a dollar today: money invested today should bring back more in the future. If you demand a return
of 7%, you'll pay $0.51 today for $1 to be received in ten years.

(Discounted cash flow, or "DCF," is widely used to quantify the potential return from investments. The
discount rate that sets the estimated future cash flows equal to the initial investment is the return the
investment will produce if the flows materialize as expected. Thus, reversing the sentence just above, if
you can put up $0.51 today and get back $1 in ten years, the implied return is 7%.)

The rate at which we discount future cash flows depends on the risks involved in waiting for them. These
include the risk of actual loss as well as the loss of purchasing power to inflation. If something's risky,
we should demand a high return and thus use a high discount rate. However, the rate we use is also a
function of prevailing interest rates and the returns available on other investments (opportunity costs).
When those things are low, a low discount rate will be used. And the lower the discount rate, the higher
the resulting present value. Thus low interest rates raise the DCF value of all investments.

Third, a low risk-free rate brings down demanded returns all along the capital market line. The
yield on the 30-day Treasury bill is often referred to as the risk-free rate. There's no credit risk, since the
obligor is the government (which can print all the money it needs for repayment), and there's no risk of
losing purchasing power to inflation, since repayment at maturity is only days away.

Since the risk-free rate can be earned with complete safety, and most people prefer safety over risk (all
else being equal), investors shouldn't take risk without being compensated for doing so. As investments
increase in terms of the level of uncertainty, an incremental "risk premium" should be incorporated in
their potential returns. Thus the notion of the "capital market line" that slopes upward and to the right,
showing the relationship between risk and return, as follows:

In this graphic, the capital market line shows a coherent relationship between expected return and
expected risk. When I studied at the University of Chicago business school, they called this
"equilibrium": as perceived risk increases, each asset class appears to offer a higher a priori return, such
that the prospective risk-adjusted return on each asset is fair relative to the others. Nothing else makes
sense in a market that's functioning well.

But in March, the Fed lowered the fed funds rate by 1.5%. Predictably, other interest rates, bond yields
and prospective returns generally followed suit, as suggested in the next graphic.

The risk/return relationships among asset classes are still reasonable, but all prospective returns are much
lower in the absolute. Thus, in general, the lower the point at which the capital market line
originates, the lower all returns will be.

Or to get away from the graphic and say it in words, when I began to manage high yield bonds in late
1978, the fed funds rate and the yield on the ten-year Treasury note both stood around 9%. As a result,
high yield bonds had to offer yields above 12% in order to attract capital (and yet few investors were
willing to buy them because of the stigma and because they didn't need yields that high to reach their
return goals). But today, with the fed funds rate and yield on the ten-year well below 1%, people are
flocking to high yield bonds paying 5-6% like it's free money. The point is that the lower the risk-free
rate, the lower the prospective return needed to attract capital to other asset classes.

So the lower the fed funds rate is, the lower bond yields will be, meaning outstanding bonds with higher
interest rates will appreciate. And lower yields on bonds means they offer less competition to stocks, so
stocks don't have to be cheap to attract buying. They, too, will appreciate. And if high-quality assets
become high-priced and thus offer low prospective returns, then low-quality assets will see buying -
implying rising prices and falling prospective returns - because they look cheap relative to high-quality
assets.

Most decisions in investing are relative decisions. Investors try to find the most attractive opportunity so
as to be able to achieve the highest risk-adjusted return. Thus a great deal of the selection process is
comparative. "I'm considering buying X. How does its risk/return proposition compare with the one on
Y?" That means the lower the return is on Y, the less X has to offer to be the superior investment. And if
X is to offer less return, the way it gets that way is through an increase in its price. Thus, assets and
asset classes are inherently interconnected. Money moves from one asset class to the next in search
of the best bargains, which get bought up until they're at equilibrium with everything else.
Changing the risk-free rate has the potential to reset the returns on everything.

Fourth, lower demanded returns lead directly to higher valuations. When Treasury notes yield a
more normal 3%, investors might demand a return of, say, 61⁄2% (incorporating an "equity premium" of
350 basis points) if they're to invest in the S&P 500 instead of Treasurys. The S&P offers such an
"earnings yield" when its earnings represent 61⁄2% of its price, which written as a fraction is 61⁄2/100. The
ratio of earnings to price is obviously the inverse of the ratio of price to earnings, or the p/e ratio. An
earnings yield of 61⁄2/100 equates to a p/e ratio of 100/61⁄2, or 15.4, which is a rough approximation of the
S&P's average p/e ratio since World War II.

Now let's assume a Treasury yield like today's 1%. To offer the same 350 basis point equity risk
premium, the earnings yield only has to be 41⁄2%. And an earnings yield of 41⁄2/100 implies a p/e ratio of
22.2. So, in theory, assuming S&P earnings are unchanged, a reduction of the required earnings yield
from to 61⁄2% to 41⁄2% calls for an increase in the p/e ratio, and thus in the price, of 44%. This is another
way to describe the impact of lower interest rates on asset prices. Lower rates mean higher prices for
stocks, just as they do for bonds. (Note: since companies' earnings generally grow while bonds' interest
coupons don't, it can be argued that required return on stocks should be even lower, meaning p/e ratios
can be even higher.)

Fifth, the Fed also has the ability to lower yields by buying bonds. This is really an extension of the
point just above. In addition to lowering the fed funds rate, the Fed can goose the markets by buying
Treasury bonds and notes and other types of securities. If the Fed buys securities, that lifts the prices of
those securities. When their prices go up, their expected yield to maturity goes down. And when the
yield on bonds goes down, other assets can attract capital without offering as much prospective return as
they used to, so their prices can rise, too.

Further, when the Fed buys securities, it puts money into the hands of the people who sell them to the
Fed, and that money will be spent or loaned (helping the economy) or reinvested (driving up asset prices).
In the four months from mid-March to mid-July of this year, the Fed bought mostly Treasury bonds and
notes, but also other securities, to the tune of more than $2.3 trillion. That was roughly 20 times what it
bought in 18 months during the Global Financial Crisis.

Sixth, low interest rates and the resultant low prospective returns encourage risk tolerance and
reaching for return. When a lower risk-free rate pulls down the capital market line as shown above,
most assets promise less return than they used to. That means people who in the past got the return they

want or need from an asset with a given level of risk now have to move out the risk curve to riskier assets
in order to try for that same return.

Today, many U.S. institutional investors are saddled with target returns (in the case of endowments) or
actuarial assumptions for return (for defined-benefit pension funds) in the area of 7%, give or take.
Unfortunately, these needed returns have not come down nearly as much as interest rates (and thus
prospective investment returns) have fallen. For return targets to decline as much as interest rates,
universities and charities would have to be content with receiving reduced support from their
endowments, and pension plan sponsors would have to come up with increased funding.

The investments one might have made in the past now promise far less return than they used to. With
prospective returns on cash near zero, the ten-year Treasury at 0.7%, high grade bonds yielding 2-3% and
stocks expected to return 5-6%, what's an investor needing 7% to do? The usual answer is to take on
more risk in pursuit of the higher returns that riskier investments appear to promise.

In this way, low rates make risk aversion a challenging thing to practice and risk taking much more
palatable. The alternative is to accept today's lower promised returns. But most people opt for the
former, and that means risky asset classes become crowded with eager capital, something that's not
beneficial for risk-adjusted returns. Bad things tend to happen when FOMO - the fear of missing out -
takes over from risk aversion, or the fear of losing money.

Seventh, the need to put money to work causes the capital markets to reopen. In most financial
crises, the "credit window" slams shut because people with capital (a) are nursing losses on the assets
they own and (b) are terrified about the future of the environment. Those two factors make them reluctant
to provide new financing, and that in turn means capital is unavailable - even to deserving companies and
potentially lucrative projects. That, in turn, means risk assets decline in price, causing prospective risk-
adjusted returns to rise.

But today, the Fed and Treasury have reassured investors that they will ride to the rescue, that large
amounts will be made available to companies and other participants in the economy, and that they can
depend on a prompt recovery. This has enabled investors to "look across the valley" to better times. This
in turn has enabled low rates to coerce sources of capital to provide generous levels of financing.

Thus, today, credit is liberally available, and bond issuance has equaled or eclipsed many prior records.
For example, despite the biggest quarterly decline in GDP in recorded history and the closure of the
capital markets for a while, $345.6 billion of U.S. high yield bonds have been issued so far this year,
according to S&P. That's more than the record $344.8 billion issued in all of 2012.

In all these ways, a low risk-free rate makes even low investment returns seem attractive. Thus, today, it
seems to me that most assets are offering expected returns that are fair relative to their expected
risk, relative to everything else. But the prospective returns on everything are about the lowest
they've ever been.

Changes in the Composition of the Stock Market

In Time for Thinking, I also mentioned the increased bifurcation of the U.S. equity market. In short, the
leading tech and software companies (a) have become more different from other companies as the role
and power of technology have expanded and (b) have become a much larger part of equity indices as
such

companies have grown and become more highly valued, and as indices like the S&P 500 have changed
their composition to remain relevant. While I'm no expert, I'm going to cite a few of the arguments
regarding the significance and implications of this trend. (Thus I pass on these appealing arguments; I
don't endorse them).

First, the attributes and returns on the two groups of stocks have become more differentiated.

 • The gap between the growth outlook for FAAMG (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft and
 Google) and similar companies and that for the rest (in the slow-growing 21st century) is huge and
 expanding.
 • The adoption of technology has been pulled forward by the pandemic. Thus virtual meetings,
 ecommerce and cloud computing are now commonplace, not the exception.
 • Current profits severely understate the tech leaders' potential. They currently choose to spend
 aggressively on new product development to expand share and head off competition, voluntarily
 suppressing profit margins. Thus enormous potential exists for the tech companies to increase
 profit margins in the future when they become willing to moderate their growth rates.
 • Their addressable markets are larger than ever and growing, giving them greater "runway." For
 example, at the end of 1999, during the tech bubble, there were 248 million Internet users in the
 world. Now there are more than that in the U.S. alone and almost 5 billion worldwide. Thus
 62% of the world's population carries a computer with Internet connectivity in his or her pocket.
 • Finally, it's easier than ever to scale these businesses. In the past, one would have to go to a
 dealer to buy software on a disc, take it home and install it. Now we download apps from the
 web in seconds.

For these reasons, a large differential in terms of p/e ratios is warranted.

Second, these groups will not merely coexist and perform differently. Rather, the tech companies
have the potential to negatively impact some of the non-tech companies. The common term for this
phenomenon is "disruption." Amazon has endangered brick-and-mortar retailers. Netflix has challenged
the traditional TV and movie ecosystem. Facebook has cut into newspapers and other traditional media -
industries thought to be protected by moats and thus "defensive." Tesla has revolutionized the auto
industry and outperformed the incumbents in developing electric vehicles. The list of industries immune
to technological change - in terms of profitability if not their essential nature - is limited.

Finally, it's argued that the leading tech companies of today are stronger than the Nifty Fifty of the
late 1960s. Today's leaders are often compared to the Nifty Fifty, but they're much better companies:
larger; faster growing with greater potential for prolonging that growth; capable of higher gross margins
(since in many cases there's no physical cost of production); more dominant in their respective markets
(because of scale, greater technological superiority and "lock in," or impediments to switching solutions);
more able to grow without incremental investment (since they don't require much in the way of factories
or working capital to make their products); and possibly valued lower as a multiple of future profits. This
argues for a bigger valuation gap and is perhaps the most provocative element in the pro-tech argument.

Of course, many of the Nifty Fifty didn't prove to be as powerful as had been thought. Xerox and IBM
lost the lead in their markets and experienced financial difficulty; the markets for the products of Kodak
and Polaroid disappeared, and they went bankrupt; AIG required a government bailout to avoid
bankruptcy; and who's heard from Simplicity Pattern lately? Today's tech leaders appear much more
powerful and unassailable.

But fifty years ago, the Nifty Fifty appeared impregnable too; people were simply wrong. If you invested
in them in 1968, when I first arrived at First National City Bank for a summer job in the investment
research department, and held them for five years, you lost almost all your money. The market fell in half
in the early 1970s, and the Nifty Fifty declined much more. Why? Because investors hadn't been
sufficiently price-conscious. In fact, in the opinion of the banks (which did much of the institutional
investing in those days) they were such good companies that there was "no price too high." Those last
four words are, in my opinion, the essential component in - and the hallmark of - all bubbles. To
some extent, we might be seeing them in action today. Certainly no one's valuing FAAMG on current
income or intrinsic value, and perhaps not on an estimate of e.p.s. in any future year, but rather on their
potential for growth and increased profitability in the far-off future.

And note that a lot of the strength and potential of today's tech leaders derives from their dominant
market shares and market power. This same element creates one of their greatest vulnerabilities: potential
exposure to anti-trust action. Bigness and the successful tactics that led to it are enough to make some
people call for constraints on the incumbents. Here's what Barclays reported on October 7:

 Yesterday, US large-cap technology stocks (i.e. Facebook, Amazon, Google and Apple)
 came under pressure after the House antitrust subcommittee released a 449-page report
 proposing far-reaching antitrust reforms. Recommendations include structural
 separation, prohibiting a dominant platform from operating in competition with the firms
 dependent on it and line-of-business restrictions, limiting the markets in which a
 dominant firm can engage.

There are two groups of stocks in the indices, and the representation of tech stocks is large and expanding.
In the S&P 500, for example, roughly one-quarter by value consists of tech and software companies that
are fast growing and have the ability to increase both revenues and profit margins, and the remaining
three-quarters is slow growing and already enjoying maximum margins. Today's tech leaders are more
superior than ever to run-of-the-mill companies, rendering indices that include both types of company less
relevant than ever. Or so it's argued. Regardless of where you come out on that question, if an index
consists 25% of great growth companies at high multiples (up roughly 30% this year as of the end of
September) and 75% more pedestrian companies at low multiples (up 4%), the average figures in terms
of growth, valuation and performance might not be meaningful enough to support conclusions
about "the stock market."

A Different Kind of Crisis

One question I'm often asked nowadays is how the coronavirus crisis of 2020 differs from the past crises
we've managed through:

 • the high yield bond crisis of 1990-91, when many prominent LBOs of the '80s went bankrupt,
 • the telecom/scandal company meltdown in 2001-02, and
 • the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09, brought on by the implosion of sub-prime mortgages and
 marked by the meltdown of financial institutions.

The clear difference I want to cover here relates to the characteristics of the current go-round. The best
way to start might be to describe the crises of the past:

 • In each of the three crises listed above, recessions caused or exacerbated economic weakness.

 • Negative economic and corporate developments, collapsing markets and rising fear caused a
 credit crunch in which financing became impossible to obtain.
 • The combination of economic weakness and the unavailability of financing led to vastly
 increased defaults and bankruptcies.
 • Asset prices cratered.
 • Companies and investment entities marked by asset/liability mismatches and/or high levels of
 leverage experienced margin calls and meltdowns.
 • The downward spiral seemed unstoppable.
 • Pessimism ran rampant, leading to soaring risk aversion.
 • This led to panic selling of assets and rendered most investors absolutely unwilling to buy.
 • Because of all the above, it was possible to purchase assets at prices from which extremely high
 returns could be achieved, often with low attendant risk.

Now, contrast that with the events of 2020. In mid-February, developments regarding the coronavirus
pandemic and the lockdown implemented to fight it began to hammer the markets. Prices for equities and
credit fell, and the mood turned darkly negative. From the all-time high reached on February 19, the S&P
500 fell 34% in only 33 days. The prices of high yield bonds and leveraged loans were hard-hit as well.
Security issuance stopped cold. The pieces were in place for a crisis just like those described above, and
things were moving in that direction in March.

But as everyone knows, the Treasury and Fed announced rescue programs in mid-March and an enlarged
Fed program during the week of March 23: zero interest rates, bond buying, grants, loans and
significantly enhanced unemployment payments. The total ran to multiple trillions of dollars. And the
authorities made it clear that there was more behind that: that the available resources were unlimited.

 • People accepted that the recession would end and a recovery take its place in short order.
 • With short-term interest rates near zero, investors lined up to buy bonds in the quest for return.
 Thus rather than a credit crunch, there's been record amounts of capital available.
 • Even though the rescue provided "liquidity but not solvency," whole industries (like the airlines)
 were saved from sure bankruptcy.
 • There were none of the spectacular implosions that mark most crises.
 • Ditto for panic selling.
 • Pessimism was replaced by willingness to think about better times ahead.
 • With interest rates at zero, investors couldn't afford to be risk averse. They had to embrace risk
 assets in order to have a shot at returns above the low single digits.
 • Thus asset prices recovered.

To illustrate the effect, since April 1, investors in distressed debt have had opportunities to make large
rescue loans to companies or entities needing a quick response to problems related to illiquidity or
pending debt maturities, and there's still a good pipeline. But with investor optimism reinforced,
competition to lend has increased, and the ultra-low returns available on safe assets have made the
possibility of double-digit returns something people compete to achieve. The sum of all this has kept
prospective returns far lower than is usual in times of crisis.

Thus this is an unusual crisis: one marked by a non-financial, exogenous cause and a lack of lasting pain
for most investors . . . and not by widespread opportunities for bargain hunters. Great investments are
often made when an investor is willing to buy something no one else will touch at any price. We were
able to do just that in past crises, because what you needed was money to spend and the nerve to spend it,

and we had those things when most didn't. Other investors' lack of money and nerve in past crises
made them great times for buying. Today, thanks to the Fed and Treasury, everyone's got a lot of
both. That makes things much tougher.

But what happens if people exhaust the support payments they've received, Washington fails to deliver
sufficient additional assistance, widespread layoffs ensue (as seems to be beginning) and business slows
again? Mightn't we see a rise in defaults and bankruptcies and a softening of investor psychology and
thus asset prices?

The Potential Downside of the Rescue

Along with the sweep of the Covid-19 epidemic and the magnitude of the recession that resulted from
combatting it, the size and success of the Fed/Treasury rescue effort is one of the big stories of 2020. In
the Global Financial Crisis, it took the authorities months to figure out what to do and do it. But this year,
they dusted off the 2008 playbook and implemented it in a couple of weeks.

We've never seen an economic environment like the one brought on by the lockdown. Many industries
(plus other entities and institutions) with zero activity and no revenues, but still high costs. And millions
of people without jobs or incomes. There's a belief (never documented) that a large part of the American
population lacks resources with which to survive a $400 emergency. How would they survive months
without paychecks? Without paychecks, how would they patronize merchants? Without making sales,
how would merchants pay their rent? Or their taxes? Without rental income, how would property owners
service their debt? Without income from debt service, how would lenders stay solvent? Without tax
revenues, how would state and local governments pay their employees and continue to provide services?
And how would developed nations purchase the exports that emerging economies need to make to
survive? The picture we faced in mid-March was truly the worst I've seen. Global depression seemed
possible.

But the Fed and Treasury brought their massive concerted effort, simulating the activity of the economy
and replacing a good bit of the lost cash flows. It succeeded to a startling degree. Most investment
markets recovered, and the economy has shown surprising strength. Thus the next thing I want to discuss
are the possible ramifications of the rescue. I've touched on this before, but it's one more thing on which
I want to go into greater depth.

First, what are the policy implications of zero rates? To me, the most obvious one is that there's no
more room to cut. (Fed officials insist they won't take rates into negative territory, and negative rates
certainly can't be said to have rekindled economic growth in Japan and Europe.) Thus the question is
how the Fed would counter an economic relapse connected with something like a second wave of Covid-
19 and resultant second lockdown.

Second, rescues and bailouts have the potential to cause moral hazard. When the government saves
people from losses, it teaches that it's okay to make risky investments: if they work out, you get rich; if
they don't work, you'll be bailed out. That's a bad lesson. This year, for example, lifelines have been
thrown to industries that over-borrowed, over-expanded and/or spent too much of their cash on stock-
buybacks. Yet it was decided that they wouldn't be permitted to go bankrupt.

Further, by dramatically lifting the markets, the Fed may have caused some people to believe that it will
always do so - that there's a "Powell put" that can be counted on to keep things humming. (Think back

to the tantrum the stock market threw in the fourth quarter of 2018, when the yield on the ten-year
Treasury got up to 3.25%. It was enough to end the program of interest rate increases that Janet Yellen
had initiated and bring on a series of cuts instead.) If investors believe the Fed can always be counted on
to keep the markets aloft, that will encourage dangerous behavior. And, anyway, it seems like an
impossible task and, in my opinion, a questionable goal for the Fed.

Third, the kneejerk reaction to trillions of dollars of deficit spending on the part of the Treasury
and further trillions of dollars of bond buying by the Fed is worry about inflation. The injection into
the economy of trillions in added liquidity would seem to have the potential to create too much money
chasing too little in the way of goods, causing prices to rise (as it has done for assets). Further, as a result
of the rescue measures, we're running a multi-trillion-dollar deficit and adding trillions to the national
debt, which as a percentage of GDP now approaches the high established after World War II.

Printing large amounts of money has had severe consequences in the past. One wonders whether the
2020 version might bring about some of the things traditionally associated with currency debasement:

 • undesirably high inflation,
 • weakness of the U.S. dollar,
 • a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating,
 • an increase in the cost of borrowing to cover the increased deficit,
 • rising interest rates generally, adding further to the cost of debt service, and thus to the deficit and
 debt,
 • the allocation of an increasing share of the federal budget to debt service, and
 • the dollar's loss of status as the world's reserve currency.

Of course, there are rejoinders:

 • We've been engaged in deficit spending for a long time without any rekindling of inflation or
 other ill effects. (Of course, this can be likened to the frog sitting in the pot of water that's being
 heated. It doesn't notice the gradually rising temperature until it's too late.)
 • Nations have been trying to create 2% inflation for years without success. Thus (a) inflation isn't
 easily ignited and (b) inflation isn't the problem - the lack of it is.
 • Modern Monetary Theory says (over-simplifying) that deficits and debts don't matter. (But most
 economists disagree, and common sense suggests it's unlikely a country can spend beyond its
 means to an unlimited degree without repercussions.)
 • Finally, there's no obvious candidate to replace the dollar as the reserve currency.

All I know is that (a) the Fed and Treasury seem unworried about the possibility of any of the above and
(b) anyway, they consider continuing the program indispensable.

Fourth, what the Fed does worry about is anemic growth. It will certainly take a fair while - a year or
more following the low reached in the second quarter of this year - for GDP to regain the level achieved
in 2019 and what it was supposed to be in 2020. A stagnant economy would fail to put people back to
work who lost their jobs as a result of the lockdown, and it certainly wouldn't provide jobs for a growing
population.

 "The risk here is a downward spiral," [Lael Brainard, a Fed governor, noted in a recent
 speech], warning that the economy could be trapped in a vicious cycle of low interest
 rates, muted inflation and weak growth.

 Long-term trends such as disappointing productivity gains and limited labor force growth
 are sapping the economy's potential. In July, the Congressional Budget Office said the
 U.S. economy could expand in the long run at an average annual rate of just 1.8 percent
 - down from more than 4 percent in 2000. (The Washington Post, October 3)

Because this is the Fed's prime concern, it's less worried about the risks entailed in its efforts to rescue
and stimulate the economy as described above. It is perfectly willing to see inflation at 2%, something
that it hasn't been for years. In fact, it recently announced an averaging approach under which monetary
policy will remain loose and rates low until inflation averages 2%. That is to say it will be permitted to
run above 2% for a while as a way to bring the average up to 2%.

Some say the worst of all worlds would be stagflation, which I lived through in the 1970s: high inflation
and economic weakness. Certainly it was a dismal decade. But others think economic sluggishness is
more likely to lead to disinflation (declining inflation) or even deflation, a phenomenon so rare we know
little about it.

 The secular deterioration in economic growth has created a condition of excess resources
 and disinflation. (Hoisington Quarterly Review and Outlook, Third Quarter 2020)

My answer is that I have no idea whether we'll see inflation, stagflation, stagnation, disinflation or
deflation, and Oaktree won't bet on any of them. It's one of the tenets of our investment philosophy that
our investment decisions aren't driven by macro forecasts. Not that it wouldn't be nice to know what the
future holds in these regards; rather it's simply that most investors - and certainly we - aren't capable of
superior judgments about the macro. So why bet?

Finally, I want to state clearly that nothing I've written on the subject of the rescue and its possible
ramifications is intended to be critical of the Fed and Treasury and their actions. I put it simply:
just because something has potential negative consequences doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. In
the case of the pandemic and associated recession, there was absolutely no alternative. While not perfect,
the policy response has been brilliant.

Further Exposing Inequality

Especially in this environment of heightened attention to social and racial justice, I can't end this memo
without touching on some of the many ways in which the recent experience has shed additional light on
inequality in our society:

 • People further down the economic ladder have had less in terms of financial resources to fall back
 on during the lockdown, and they generally haven't benefitted from the increase in asset prices
 that's been driven by the reduction of interest rates.
 • Low-income workers have been more likely to lose their jobs due to the lockdown and recession.
 • Those who've kept their jobs (often in industries like food production, retail and hospitals) are
 more likely to be essential workers, required to work and put in harm's way. White-collar and
 administrative employees, on the other hand, are much more likely to be able to work from home.

 • Low-income people are more likely to live in cramped quarters and crowded neighborhoods,
 giving them a lower quality of life if working from home and an increased chance of contracting
 the disease.
 • For all these reasons, the incidence of Covid-related sickness and death has been disproportion-
 ately high among these populations.
 • People with lower incomes are more dependent on the schools to help with childcare. Thus
 school closings have had a greater impact on lower-income families, which are less able to keep
 kids home when given the choice. Rather they have to send them to school, where they are
 exposed to contracting the disease and bringing it home to parents and grandparents.
 • Finally, women are more exposed to this phenomenon than men: they make up a higher
 percentage of single parents, their wages may be lower than those of male partners, and they're
 often expected to be the ones shouldering the responsibility for childcare.

Of course, "lower income" is disproportionately synonymous with "non-white." Taken together, I believe
there's been a "tale of two cities." The overall experience of lower-income Americans during the
pandemic - and thus of Blacks and Hispanics - has been a far cry from that of whites and those with
higher incomes and greater financial resources. These observations are likely to be part of the
conversation on equality of opportunity that lies ahead for our country.

What It All Means for the Markets

For years leading up to 2020, I described the investment environment as follows:

 • An unusually high level of uncertainty (mostly exogenous and geopolitical)
 • The lowest prospective returns ever
 • Asset prices that were full to excessive
 • Pro-risk behavior being engaged in by investors trying for high returns

Taken together, these things told me we were living in a low-return world in which the promised
returns didn't fully compensate for the risks. It wasn't a bubble, characterized by absurdly high prices.
And there was no way to say for sure when the good times would end or why. It was merely the absence
of justification for taking full risk.

Thus Oaktree operated under the mantra "Move forward, but with caution." We invested, and we tried to
be fully invested. But we endeavored to do so "with caution." And since we always take a cautious
approach to our risk-asset strategies, it really meant "more caution than usual." Being fully invested in a
cautious portfolio caused us to lag the benchmarks a bit in some of the asset classes where we have them,
as it turned out that caution generally wasn't needed - until this year.

Our cautious stance was rewarded in the difficult first quarter of 2020. The conditions I described
above made the markets vulnerable to exogenous shock, and we got a doozy. Importantly, that
caution enabled us to approach our portfolios calmly, generally unconcerned about price declines and not
burdened with widespread problems requiring remediation. In drawdown funds with capital available, we
were able to act affirmatively, picking up bargains when their availability peaked in March.

Now, however, I think we've returned to the market conditions I used to go on about.

 • The same uncertainties exist as were present last year (except that the recession and ending of the
 bull market that were considered ultimately inevitable have come and gone). In addition, we
 have some new uncertainties. The full list includes the battle against Covid-19, the shape of the
 recovery, the implications of the election and whether it will go smoothly, worry about higher
 taxes and more redistribution, the divisiveness in our country, and the outlook for racial harmony.
 • If prospective returns were low in the last few years, they're even lower today thanks to the
 reduction of interest rates. A near-zero return on cash, 2% on investment grade debt, 5% on high
 yield bonds, 5-6% expected from equities - at the same time as lots of capital is eager to be put to
 work. Adequate returns are likely to be hard to come by.
 • The stock market is back near the high reached in February and selling at an above average
 valuation (as described earlier). The only things that appear to be low-priced are the ones that
 appear fundamentally most risky, such as oil & gas, retailers and retail real estate, office buildings
 and hotels, and low-rated tranches of structured credit. As I said earlier, everything appears to be
 fairly priced relative to everything else, but nothing is cheap thanks to the low base interest rate.
 • Thus, after a brief foray into bargain-land in March, we're back to a low-return world. But since
 most investors haven't reduced their required or targeted returns, they have to engage in elevated
 risk in order to pursue them.

In my view, the low interest rates represent the dominant characteristic of the current financial
environment, creating the dominant consideration for investors: the lowest prospective returns in
history (for the reasons described on pages 4-6). Thus I've dusted off a presentation I've been giving in
recent years called "Investing in a Low-Return World." At its end, after laying out much of the above, I
conclude by enumerating the strategic alternatives for investors:

 • Invest as you always have and expect your historic returns. Actually, this one's a red herring.
 The things you used to own are now priced to provide much lower returns.
 • Invest as you always have and settle for today's low returns. This one's realistic, although not
 that exciting a prospect.
 • Reduce risk in deference to the high level of uncertainty and accept even-lower returns.
 That makes sense, but then your returns will be lower still.
 • Go to cash at a near-zero return and wait for a better environment. I'd argue against this
 one. Going to cash is extreme and certainly not called for now. And you'd have a return of
 roughly zero while you wait for the correction. Most institutions can't do that.
 • Increase risk in pursuit of higher returns. This one is "supposed" to work, but it's no sure
 thing, especially when so many investors are trying the same thing. The high level of uncertainty
 tells me this isn't the time for aggressiveness, since the low absolute prospective returns don't
 appear likely to compensate.
 • Put more into special niches and special investment managers. In other words, move into
 alternative, private and "alpha" markets where there might be more potential for bargains. But
 doing so introduces illiquidity and manager risk. It's certainly not a free lunch.

None of these alternatives is completely satisfactory and free from downside. But in my view there
are no others.

To put it into the terms I've been using over the last several years, how should the balance be set today
between aggressiveness and defensiveness? How should you "calibrate" the riskiness of your portfolio?
Should it be at your normal level; titled toward offense to try to wrest high returns from a low-return
world; or tilted toward defense in deference to the uncertainties, requiring you to settle for lower returns?

As I'm sure is my bias, I lean toward defense at this time. In my view, when uncertainty is high, asset
prices should be low, creating high prospective returns that are compensatory. But because the Fed has
set rates so low, returns are just the opposite. Thus the odds aren't on the investor's side, and the
market is vulnerable to negative surprises. This is how I described the prior years, and I'm back to
saying it again. The case isn't extreme - prices aren't grievously high (assuming interest rates stay low,
which they're likely to do for several years). But it's hard in this context to find anything mouth-
watering.