Memo: Selling Out.

As I'm now in my fourth decade of memo writing, I'm sometimes tempted to conclude I should quit,
because I've covered all the relevant topics. Then a new idea for a memo pops up, delivering a pleasant
surprise. My January 2021 memo Something of Value, which chronicled the time I spent in 2020 living
and discussing investing with my son Andrew, recounted a semi-real conversation in which we briefly
discussed whether and when to sell appreciated assets. It occurred to me that even though selling is an
inescapable part of the investment process, I've never devoted an entire memo to it.

The Basic Idea

Everyone is familiar with the old saw that's supposed to capture investing's basic proposition: "buy
low, sell high." It's a hackneyed caricature of the way most people view investing. But few things that
are important can be distilled into just four words; thus, "buy low, sell high" is nothing but a starting point
for discussion of a very complex process.

Will Rogers, an American film star and humorist of the 1920s and '30s, provided what he may have
thought was a more comprehensive roadmap for success in the pursuit of wealth:

 Don't gamble; take all your savings and buy some good stock and hold it till it goes up,
 then sell it. If it don't go up, don't buy it.

The illogicality of his advice makes clear how simplistic this adage - like many others - really is.
However, regardless of the details, people may unquestioningly accept that they should sell appreciated
investments. But how helpful is that basic concept?

Origins

Much of what I'll write here got its start in a 2015 memo called Liquidity. The hot topic in the investment
world at that moment was the concern about a perceived decline in the liquidity provided by the market
(when I say "the market," I'm talking specifically about the U.S. stock market, but the statement has
broad applicability). This was commonly attributed to a combination of (a) the licking investment banks
had taken in the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09 and (b) the Volcker Rule, which prohibited risky
activities such as proprietary trading on the part of systemically important financial institutions. The
latter constrained banks' ability to "position" securities, or buy them, when clients wanted to sell.

Maybe liquidity in 2015 was less than it had previously been, and maybe it wasn't. However, looking
beyond the events of the day, I closed that memo by stating my conviction that (a) most investors trade
too much, to their own detriment, and (b) the best solution for illiquidity is to build portfolios for the long
term that don't rely on liquidity for success. Long-term investors have an advantage over those with short
timeframes (and I think the latter describes the majority of market participants these days). Patient

investors are able to ignore short-term performance, hold for the long run, and avoid excessive trading
costs, while everyone else worries about what's going to happen in the next month or quarter and
therefore trades excessively. In addition, long-term investors can take advantage if illiquid assets become
available for purchase at bargain prices.

Like so many things in investing, however, just holding is easier said than done. Too many people equate
activity with adding value. Here's how I summed up this idea in Liquidity, inspired by something
Andrew had said:

 When you find an investment with the potential to compound over a long period, one of
 the hardest things is to be patient and maintain your position as long as doing so is
 warranted based on the prospective return and risk. Investors can easily be moved to sell
 by news, emotion, the fact that they've made a lot of money to date, or the excitement of
 a new, seemingly more promising idea. When you look at the chart for something
 that's gone up and to the right for 20 years, think about all the times a holder would
 have had to convince himself not to sell.

Everyone wishes they'd bought Amazon at $5 on the first day of 1998, since it's now up 660x at $3,304.

 • But who would have continued to hold when the stock hit $85 in 1999 - up 17x in less than two
 years?
 • Who among those who held on would have been able to avoid panicking in 2001, as the price fell
 • And who wouldn't have sold by late 2015 when it hit $600 - up 100x from the 2001 low? Yet
 anyone who sold at $600 captured only the first 18% of the overall rise from that low.

This reminds me of the time I once visited Malibu with a friend and mentioned that the Rindge family is
said to have bought the entire area - all 13,330 acres - in 1892 for $300,000, or $22.50 per acre. (It's
clearly worth many billions today.) My friend said, "I'd like to have bought all of Malibu for $300,000."
My response was simple: "you would have sold it when it got to $600,000."

The more I've thought about it since writing Liquidity, the more convinced I've become that there
are two main reasons why people sell investments: because they're up and because they're down.
You may say that sounds nutty, but what's really nutty is many investors' behavior.

Selling Because It's Up

"Profit-taking" is the intelligent-sounding term in our business for selling things that have appreciated.
To understand why people engage in it, you need insight into human behavior, because a lot of investors'
selling is motivated by psychology.

In short, a good deal of selling takes place because people like the fact that their assets show gains,
and they're afraid the profits will go away. Most people invest a lot of time and effort trying to avoid
unpleasant feelings like regret and embarrassment. What could cause an investor more self-recrimination
than watching a big gain evaporate? And what about the professional investor who reports a big winner
to clients one quarter and then has to explain why the holding is at or below cost the next? It's only
human to want to realize profits to avoid these outcomes.

If you sell an appreciated asset, that puts the gain "in the books," and it can never be reversed. Thus,
some people consider selling winners extremely desirable - they love realized gains. In fact, at a meeting
of a non-profit's investment committee, a member suggested that they should be leery of increasing
endowment spending in response to gains because those gains were unrealized. I was quick to point out
that it's usually a mistake to view realized gains as less transient than unrealized ones (assuming there's
no reason to doubt the veracity of the unrealized carrying values). Yes, the former have been made
concrete. However, sales proceeds are generally reinvested, meaning the profits - and the principal - are
put back at risk. One might argue that appreciated securities are more vulnerable to declines than new
investments in assets currently deemed to be attractively priced, but that's far from a certainty.

I'm not saying investors shouldn't sell appreciated assets and realize profits. But it certainly doesn't
make sense to sell things just because they're up.

Selling Because It's Down

As wrong as it is to sell appreciated assets solely to crystalize gains, it's even worse to sell them just
because they're down. Nevertheless, I'm sure many people do it.

While the rule is "buy low, sell high," clearly many people become more motivated to sell assets the more
they decline. In fact, just as continued buying of appreciated assets can eventually turn a bull
market into a bubble, widespread selling of things that are down has the potential to turn market
declines into crashes. Bubbles and crashes do occur, proving that investors contribute to excesses
in both directions.

In a movie that plays in my head, the typical investor buys something at $100. If it goes to $120, he says,
"I think I'm onto something - I should add," and if it reaches $150, he says, "Now I'm highly confident -
I'm going to double up." On the other hand, if it falls to $90, he says, "I'm going to think about
increasing my position to reduce my average cost," but at $75, he concludes he should reconfirm his
thesis before averaging down further. At $50, he says, "I'd better wait for the dust to settle before buying
more." And at $20 he says, "It feels like it's going to zero; get me out!"

Just like those who are afraid of surrendering gains, many investors worry about letting losses
compound. They might fear their clients will say (or they'll say to themselves), "What kind of a lame-
brain continues to hold a security after it's gone from $100 to $50? Everyone knows a decline like that
can foreshadow further declines. And look - it happened."

Do investors really make behavioral errors such as those I've described? There's plenty of anecdotal
evidence. For example, studies have shown that the average mutual fund investor performs worse than
the average mutual fund. How can that be? If she merely held her positions, or if her errors were
unsystematic, the average fund investor would, by definition, fare the same as the average fund. For the
studies' findings to occur, investors have to on balance reduce the amount of capital they have in funds
that subsequently do better and increase their allocation to funds that go on to do worse. Let me put that
another way: on average, mutual fund investors tend to sell the funds with the worst recent performance
(missing out on their potential recoveries) in order to chase the funds that have done the best (and thus
likely participate in their return to earth).

We know that "retail investors" tend to be trend-followers, as described above, and their long-term
performance often suffers as a result. What about the pros? Here the evidence is even clearer: the

powerful shift in recent decades toward indexing and other forms of passive investing has taken place for
the simple reason that active investment decisions are so often wrong. Of course, many forms of error
contribute to this reality. Whatever the reason, however, we have to conclude that, on average, active
professional investors held more of the things that did less well and less of the things that outperformed,
and/or that they bought too much at elevated prices and sold too much at depressed prices. Passive
investing hasn't grown to cover the majority of U.S. equity mutual fund capital because passive results
have been so good; I think it's because active management has been so bad.

Back when I worked at First National City Bank 50 years ago, prospective clients used to ask, "What kind
of return do you think you can make in an equity portfolio?" The standard answer was 12%. Why?
"Well," we said (so simplistically), "the stock market returns about 10% a year. A little effort should
enable us to improve on that by at least 20%." Of course, as time has shown, there's no truth in that. "A
little effort" didn't add anything. In fact, in most cases, active investing detracted: most equity funds
failed to keep up with the indices, especially after fees.

What about the ultimate proof? The essential ingredient in Oaktree's investments in distressed debt -
bargain purchases - has emanated from the great opportunities sellers gave us. Negativity reaches a
crescendo during economic and market crises, causing many investors to become depressed or fearful and
sell in panic. Results like those we target in distressed debt can only be achieved when holders sell to us
at irrationally low prices.

Superior investing consists largely of taking advantage of mistakes made by others. Clearly, selling
things because they're down is a mistake that can give the buyers great opportunities.

When Should Investors Sell?

If you shouldn't sell things because they're up, and you shouldn't sell because they're down, is it ever
right to sell? As I previously mentioned, I described the discussions that took place while Andrew and his
family lived with Nancy and me in 2020 in Something of Value. That experience truly was of great value
- an unexpected silver lining to the pandemic. That memo evoked the strongest reaction from readers of
any of my memos to date. This response was probably attributable to (a) the content, which mostly
related to value investing; (b) the personal insights provided, and especially my confession regarding my
need to grow with the times; or (c) the recreated conversation that I included as an appendix. The last of
these went like this, in part:

 Howard: Hey, I see XYZ is up xx% this year and selling at a p/e ratio of xx. Are you
 tempted to take some profits?

 Andrew: Dad, I've told you I'm not a seller. Why would I sell?

 H: Well, you might sell some here because (a) you're up so much; (b) you want to put
 some of the gain "in the books" to make sure you don't give it all back; and (c) at that
 valuation, it might be overvalued and precarious. And, of course, (d) no one ever went
 broke taking a profit.

 A: Yeah, but on the other hand, (a) I'm a long-term investor, and I don't think of shares
 as pieces of paper to trade, but as part ownership in a business; (b) the company still has
 enormous potential; and (c) I can live with a short-term downward fluctuation, the threat

 of which is part of what creates opportunities in stocks to begin with. Ultimately, it's
 only the long term that matters. (There's a lot of "a-b-c" in our house. I wonder where
 Andrew got that.)

 H: But if it's potentially overvalued in the short term, shouldn't you trim your holding
 and pocket some of the gain? Then if it goes down, (a) you've limited your regret and (b)
 you can buy in lower.

 A: If I owned a stake in a private company with enormous potential, strong momentum
 and great management, I would never sell part of it just because someone offered me a
 full price. Great compounders are extremely hard to find, so it's usually a mistake to let
 them go. Also, I think it's much more straightforward to predict the long-term outcome
 for a company than short-term price movements, and it doesn't make sense to trade off a
 decision in an area of high conviction for one about which you're limited to low
 conviction. . . .

 H: Isn't there any point where you'd begin to sell?

 A: In theory there is, but it largely depends on (a) whether the fundamentals are playing
 out as I hope and (b) how this opportunity compares to the others that are available,
 taking into account my high level of comfort with this one.

Aphorisms like "no one ever went broke taking a profit" may be relevant to people who invest part-time
for themselves, but they should have no place in professional investing. There certainly are good
reasons for selling, but they have nothing to do with the fear of making mistakes, experiencing
regret and looking bad. Rather, these reasons should be based on the outlook for the investment - not
the psyche of the investor - and they have to be identified through hardheaded financial analysis, rigor
and discipline.

Stanford University professor Sidney Cottle was the editor of the later versions of Benjamin Graham and
David L. Dodd's Security Analysis, "the bible of value investing," including the edition I read at Wharton
56 years ago. For that reason, I knew the book as "Graham, Dodd and Cottle." Sid was a consultant to
the investment department at First National City Bank in the 1970s, and I've never forgotten his
description of investing: "the discipline of relative selection." In other words, most of the portfolio
decisions investors make are relative choices.

It's patently clear that relative considerations should play an enormous part in any decision to sell existing
holdings.

 • If your investment thesis seems less valid than it did previously and/or the probability that it will
 prove accurate has declined, selling some or all of the holding is probably appropriate.
 • Likewise, if another investment comes along that appears to have more promise - to offer a
 superior risk-adjusted prospective return - it's reasonable to reduce or eliminate existing holdings
 to make room for it.

Selling an asset is a decision that must not be considered in isolation. Cottle's concept of "relative
selection" highlights the fact that every sale results in proceeds. What will you do with them? Do you
have something in mind that you think might produce a superior return? What might you miss by
switching to the new investment? And what will you give up if you continue to hold the asset in your

portfolio rather than making the change? Or perhaps you don't plan to reinvest the proceeds. In that
case, what's the likelihood that holding the proceeds in cash will make you better off than you would
have been if you had held onto the thing you sold? Questions like these relate to the concept of
"opportunity cost," one of the most important ideas in financial decision-making.

Switching gears, what about the idea of selling because you think a temporary dip lies ahead that will
affect one of your holdings or the whole market? There are real problems with this approach:

 • Why sell something you think has a positive long-term future to prepare for a dip you expect to
 be temporary?
 • Doing so introduces one more way to be wrong (of which there are so many), since the decline
 might not occur.
 • Charlie Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, points out that selling for market-timing
 purposes actually gives an investor two ways to be wrong: the decline may or may not occur, and
 if it does, you'll have to figure out when the time is right to go back in.
 • Or maybe it's three ways, because once you sell, you also have to decide what to do with the
 proceeds while you wait until the dip occurs and the time comes to get back in.
 • People who avoid declines by selling too often may revel in their brilliance and fail to reinstate
 their positions at the resulting lows. Thus, even sellers who were right can fail to accomplish
 anything of lasting value.
 • Lastly, what if you're wrong and there is no dip? In that case, you'll miss out on the ensuing
 gains and either never get back in or do so at higher prices.

So it's generally not a good idea to sell for purposes of market timing. There are very few occasions to
do so profitably and very few people who possess the skill needed to take advantage of these
opportunities.

Before I close on this subject, it's important to note that decisions to sell aren't always within an
investment manager's control. Clients can withdraw capital from accounts and funds, necessitating sales,
and the limited lifespan of closed-end funds can require managers to liquidate holdings even though
they're not ripe for selling. The choice of what to sell under these conditions can still be based on a
manager's expectations regarding future returns, but deciding not to sell isn't among the manager's
choices.

How Much Is Too Much to Hold?

Certainly there are times when it's right to sell one asset in favor of another based on the idea of relative
selection. But we mustn't do this in a mechanical manner. If we did, at the logical extreme, we would
put all of our capital into the one investment we consider the best.

Virtually all investors - even the best - diversify their portfolios. We may have a sense for which holding
is the absolute best, but I've never heard of an investor with a one-asset portfolio. They may
overweight favorites to take advantage of what they think they know, but they still diversify to
protect against what they don't know. That means they sub-optimize, potentially trading off some of
their chance at a maximal return to increase the likelihood of a merely excellent one.

Here's a related question from my reconstructed conversation with Andrew:

 H: You run a concentrated portfolio. XYZ was a big position when you invested, and it's
 even bigger today, given the appreciation. Intelligent investors concentrate portfolios and
 hold on to take advantage of what they know, but they diversify holdings and sell as
 things rise to limit the potential damage from what they don't know. Hasn't the growth
 in this position put our portfolio out of whack in that regard?

 A: Perhaps that's true, depending on your goals. But trimming would mean selling
 something I feel immense comfort with based on my bottom-up assessment and moving
 into something I feel less good about or know less well (or cash). To me, it's far better to
 own a small number of things about which I feel strongly. I'll only have a few good
 insights over my lifetime, so I have to maximize the few I have.

All professional investors want good investment performance for their clients, but they also want
financial success for themselves. And amateurs have to invest within the limits of their risk tolerance.
For these reasons, most investors - and certainly most investment managers' clients - aren't immune to
apprehension regarding portfolio concentration and thus susceptibility to untoward developments. These
considerations introduce valid reasons for limiting the size of individual asset purchases and trimming
positions as they appreciate.

Investors sometimes delegate the decision on how to weight assets in portfolios to a process called
portfolio optimization. Inputs regarding asset classes' return potential, risk and correlation are fed into a
computer model, and out comes the portfolio with the optimal expected risk-adjusted return. If an asset
appreciates relative to the others, the model can be rerun, and it will tell you what to buy and sell. The
main problem with these models lies in the fact that all the data we have regarding those three parameters
relates to the past, but to arrive at the ideal portfolio, the model needs data that accurately describes the
future. Further, the models need a numerical input for risk, and I absolutely insist that no single number
can fully describe an asset's risk. Thus, optimization models can't successfully dictate portfolio actions.

The bottom line:

 • we should base our investment decisions on our estimates of each asset's potential,
 • we shouldn't sell just because the price has risen and the position has swelled,
 • there can be legitimate reasons to limit the size of the positions we hold,
 • but there's no way to scientifically calculate what those limits should be.

In other words, the decision to trim positions or to sell out entirely comes down to judgment . . . like
everything else that matters in investing.

The Final Word on Selling

Most investors try to add value by over- and underweighting specific assets and/or through well-timed
buying and selling. While few have demonstrated the ability to consistently do these things correctly (see
my comments on active management on page 4), everyone's free to have a go at it. There is, however, a
big "but."

What's clear to me is that simply being invested is by far "the most important thing." (Someone
should write a book with that title!) Most actively managed portfolios won't outperform the market as a
result of manipulation of portfolio weightings or buying and selling for purposes of market timing. You
can try to add to returns by engaging in such machinations, but these actions are unlikely to work
at best and can get in the way at worst.

Most economies and corporations benefit from positive underlying secular trends, and thus most
securities markets rise in most years and certainly over long periods. One of the longest-running U.S.
equity indices, the S&P 500, has produced an estimated compound average return over the last 90 years
of 10.5% per year. That's startling performance. It means $1 invested in the S&P 500 90 years ago
would have grown to roughly $8,000 today.

Many people have remarked on the wonders of compounding. For example, Albert Einstein reportedly
called compound interest "the eighth wonder of the world." If $1 could be invested today at the historic
compound return of 10.5% per year, it would grow to $147 in 50 years. One might argue that economic
growth will be slower in the years ahead than it was in the past, or that bargain stocks were easier to find
in previous periods than they are today. Nevertheless, even if it compounds at just 7%, $1 invested today
will grow to over $29 in 50 years. Thus, someone entering adulthood today is practically guaranteed
to be well fixed by the time they retire if they merely start investing promptly and avoid tampering
with the process by trading.

I like the way Bill Miller, one of the great investors of our time, put it in his 3Q 2021 Market Letter:

 In the post-war period the US stock market has gone up in around 70% of the years . . .
 Odds much less favorable than that have made casino owners very rich, yet most
 investors try to guess the 30% of the time stocks decline, or even worse spend time trying
 to surf, to no avail, the quarterly up and down waves in the market. Most of the returns in
 stocks are concentrated in sharp bursts beginning in periods of great pessimism or fear, as
 we saw most recently in the 2020 pandemic decline. We believe time, not timing, is the
 key to building wealth in the stock market. (October 18, 2021. Emphasis added)

What are the "sharp bursts" Miller talks about? On April 11, 2019, The Motley Fool cited data from JP
Morgan Asset Management's 2019 Retirement Guide showing that in the 20-year period between 1999
and 2018, the annual return on the S&P 500 was 5.6%, but your return would only have been 2.0% if you
had sat out the 10 best days (or roughly 0.4% of the trading days), and you wouldn't have made any
money at all if you had missed the 20 best days. In the past, returns have often been similarly
concentrated in a small number of days. Nevertheless, overactive investors continue to jump in and out of
the market, incurring transactions costs and capital gains taxes and running the risk of missing those
"sharp bursts."

As mentioned earlier, investors often engage in selling because they believe a decline is imminent and
they have the ability to avoid it. The truth, however, is that buying or holding - even at elevated prices -
and experiencing a decline is in itself far from fatal. Usually, every market high is followed by a higher
one and, after all, only the long-term return matters. Reducing market exposure through ill-conceived
selling - and thus failing to participate fully in the markets' positive long-term trend - is a cardinal
sin in investing. That's even more true of selling without reason things that have fallen, turning
negative fluctuations into permanent losses and missing out on the miracle of long-term
compounding.

 * * *

When I meet people for the first time and they find out I'm in the investment business, they often ask
(especially in Europe) "what do you trade?" That question makes me bristle. To me, "trading" means
jumping in and out of individual assets and whole markets on the basis of guesswork as to what prices
will do in the next hour, day, month or quarter. We don't engage in such activity at Oaktree, and few
people have demonstrated the ability to do it well.

Rather than traders, we consider ourselves investors. In my view, investing means committing capital
to assets based on well-reasoned estimates of their potential and benefitting from the results over
the long term. Oaktree does employ people called traders, but their job consists of implementing long-
term investment decisions made by portfolio managers based on assets' fundamentals. No one at Oaktree
believes they can make money or advance their career by selling now and buying back after an
intervening decline, as opposed to holding for years and letting value lift prices if fundamental
expectations prove out.

When Oaktree was formed in 1995, the five founders - who at that point had worked together for nine
years on average - established an investment philosophy based on what we'd successfully done in that
time. One of the six tenets expressed our view on trying to time markets when buying and selling:

 Because we do not believe in the predictive ability required to correctly time markets, we
 keep portfolios fully invested whenever attractively priced assets can be bought. Concern
 about the market climate may cause us to tilt toward more defensive investments,
 increase selectivity or act more deliberately, but we never move to raise cash. Clients
 hire us to invest in specific market niches, and we must never fail to do our job. Holding
 investments that decline in price is unpleasant, but missing out on returns because we
 failed to buy what we were hired to buy is inexcusable.

We've never changed any of the six tenets of our investment philosophy - including this one - and we
have no plans to do so.


Memo: The Pendulum in International Affairs.

As regular readers of my memos and books know, I'm strongly interested in - you might say obsessed
with - the concept of the pendulum. The following is only a partial list of my writings on the subject:

 • My second memo, written in April 1991, was creatively titled First Quarter Performance. It
 talked about the oscillation in securities markets between euphoria and depression; between
 celebrating positive developments and obsessing over negatives; and thus between overpriced
 and underpriced assets.
 • On Regulation, written in March 2011, discussed the outlook for rulemaking stemming from the
 Global Financial Crisis. I said future developments were likely to be driven by the long-term
 pendulum-like swing in attitudes on that subject. Over time, those attitudes tend to fluctuate
 between "the markets best serve the country when they're unfettered by rules" to "we need the
 government to protect us from participants' misbehavior."
 • In The Role of Confidence, from August 2013, I discussed the way shifts in fundamentals are
 translated into market volatility by often-excessive swings in investor confidence.
 • And in my 2018 book, Mastering the Market Cycle, I interrupted my discussion of the various
 cycles - in the economy, corporate profits, credit availability, etc. - to use the metaphor of a
 pendulum, not a cycle, to describe the swings of investor psychology.

Because psychology swings so often toward one extreme or the other - and spends relatively little time at
the "happy medium" - I believe the pendulum is the best metaphor for understanding trends in anything
affected by psychology . . . not just investing.

People frequently ask what caused me to start writing memos in 1990. My very first memo, The Route
to Performance, resulted from two events I witnessed in short order, the juxtaposition of which led
to what I thought was an important observation. Over the years, many memos have been prompted
by connections I sensed between ostensibly unconnected events.

At a recent meeting of the Brookfield Asset Management board, a discussion of Ukraine triggered an
association with another aspect of international affairs - offshoring - which I first discussed in the
memo Economic Reality (May 2016). Thus the inspiration for this memo.

Background

The first item on the agenda for Brookfield's board meeting was, naturally, the tragic situation in Ukraine.
We talked about the many facets of the problem, ranging from human to economic to military to
geopolitical. In my view, energy is one of the aspects worth pondering. The desire to punish Russia for
its unconscionable behavior is complicated enormously by Europe's heavy dependence on Russia to meet
its energy needs; Russia supplies roughly one-third of Europe's oil, 45% of its imported gas, and nearly
half its coal.

Since it can be hard to arrange for alternative sources of energy on short notice, sanctioning Russia by
prohibiting energy exports would cause a significant dislocation in Europe's energy supply. Curtailing

this supply would be difficult at any time, but particularly so at this time of year, when people need to
heat their homes. That means Russia's biggest export - and largest source of hard currency ($20 billion a
month is the figure I see) - is the hardest one to sanction, as doing so would cause serious hardship for
our allies. Thus, the sanctions on Russia include an exception for sales of energy commodities. This
greatly complicates the process of bringing economic and social pressure to bear on Vladimir Putin. In
effect, we're determined to influence Russia through sanctions . . . just not the potentially most effective
one, because it would require substantial sacrifice in Europe. More on this later.

The other subject I focused on, offshoring, is quite different from Europe's energy dependence. One of
the major trends impacting the U.S. economy over the last year or so - and a factor receiving much of the
blame for today's inflation - relates to our global supply chains, the weaknesses of which have recently
been on display. Thus, many companies are seeking to shorten their supply lines and make them more
dependable, primarily by bringing production back on shore.

Over recent decades, as we all know, many industries moved a significant percentage of their production
offshore - primarily to Asia - bringing down costs by utilizing cheaper labor. This process boosted
economic growth in the emerging nations where the work was done, increased savings and
competitiveness for manufacturers and importers, and provided low-priced goods to consumers. But the
supply-chain disruption that resulted from the Covid-19 pandemic, combined with the shutdown of much
of the world's productive capacity, has shown the downside of that trend, as supply has been unable to
keep pace with elevated demand in our highly stimulated economy.

At first glance, these two items - Europe's energy dependence and supply-chain disruption - may seem to
have little in common other than the fact that they both involve international considerations. But I think
juxtaposing them is informative . . . and worthy of a memo.

Russian Energy

In 2019, Russia's top four exports were crude petroleum, refined petroleum, petroleum gas, and coal
briquettes. These totaled $223 billion, or 55% of Russia's total exports of $407 billion, according to the
Observatory of Economic Complexity.

As shown in the following table, Russia is exceptionally well positioned to wield influence over Europe
through exports of energy commodities.

 Europe Russia
 Produces Consumes Net Produces Consumes Net

 Source: "The West's Green Delusions Empowered Putin," Michael Shellenberger, Common
 Sense with Bari Weiss, March 1, 2022. Some data is approximate or rounded. (Common Sense
 is probably as tendentious as other media outlets, but I have no reason to believe the data is
 inaccurate.)

The implications are clear. Europe uses far more energy than it produces and makes up the difference
through imports. Russia, on the other hand, uses far less than it produces, leaving the remainder to
generate economic and strategic gains.

How did things get this way? According to Shellenberger (see source above):

 While Putin expanded Russia's oil production, expanded natural gas production, and then
 doubled nuclear energy production to allow more exports of its precious gas, Europe, led
 by Germany, shut down its nuclear power plants, closed gas fields, and refused to
 develop more through advanced methods like fracking.

 The numbers tell the story best. In 2016, 30 percent of the natural gas consumed by the
 European Union came from Russia. In 2018, that figure jumped to 40 percent. By 2020,
 it was nearly 44 percent, and by early 2021, it was nearly 47 percent.

The following chart makes the situation clear. In 1980, imports from Russia represented less than one-
third of Europe's oil and gas production. European production peaked about 20 years ago and has almost
halved since then, ending up near where it was in 1980. In the same roughly 40-year period, imports from
Russia have tripled, meaning they're now roughly equal to Europe's production.

 Source: BP, Gazprom, Eurostat, Perovic et al., Russia Federal Customs Service. Journal of
 Policy Analysis and Management calculations, 2021.

Shellenberger asserts - and it seems credible - that Europe allowed its dependence on imports of energy
commodities, especially from Russia, to increase so dramatically because it wanted to be more
ecologically responsible at home. In addition to limiting their production of oil and gas, some nations
(especially Germany) reduced their use of nuclear power generation - which could arguably offer the best
energy option by providing large-scale power production without emitting greenhouse gases - in a
concession to those who consider nuclear power unsafe or environmentally unfriendly. As Shellenberger
puts it:

 At the turn of the millennium, Germany's electricity was around 30 percent nuclear-
 powered. But Germany has been sacking its reliable, inexpensive nuclear plants. . . . By
 2020, Germany had reduced its nuclear share from 30 percent to 11 percent. Then, on the
 last day of 2021, Germany shut down half of its remaining six nuclear reactors. The
 other three are slated for shutdown at the end of this year.

During a briefing earlier this month, a U.S. senator told the nonpartisan political organization No Labels,
"The energy issue regarding 'Putin's war' has four components: energy, climate, security, and economics
(both national and at the household level)." Security doesn't seem to have received much
consideration in the deliberations that led to Germany's energy dependency on Russia. Just one of
the four factors - climate - appears to have motivated the decision. Choosing to count on a hostile
neighbor for essential goods is like building a bank vault and contracting with the mob to supply it with
guards. But that's what happened.

Foreign Sourcing

The downside of Europe's dependence on Russian oil and gas has made its way into the consciousness of
many people only recently, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine. But the shift to sourcing and
manufacturing overseas is something that's been on people's minds for decades.

If you think back a few hundred years, limitations on transportation required that production take place
near the point of consumption. But after the advent of the railroad, it became possible to separate the
locations of production and consumption by hundreds - or even thousands - of miles. This must have
been an important element in the creation of national champions that eventually supplied whole countries
with goods such as food and building materials that previously had to be manufactured near the local
customers. This enabled goods to be produced in places where labor was most readily available or where
benefits from specialization could be maximized. It was inevitable that these forces would affect
countries around the world and - with the emergence of airfreight and containerization - result in rapidly
growing cross-border trade.

Shortly after World War II, cheap labor and skill in assembling products permitted Japan to rapidly
become a major exporter of electronic goods and automobiles. The products were highly cost-
competitive and initially of low quality, but Japan soon developed some of the world's most desired
brands. In the late 1950s, Japanese auto companies exported just a few hundred cars a year to the U.S.,
the main selling point of which was low price. But quality rose even as prices remained attractive, and by
the early 1980s, the Reagan administration, in an attempt to protect the U.S. auto industry, asked Japanese
manufacturers to "voluntarily" limit exports to the U.S. to 1.68 million cars per year.

The lure of low manufacturing costs caused producers to shift operations from Japan to other parts of
Asia over time. A large-scale shift to China began in earnest around 1995. Subsequently, the production
of low-value-added goods such as T-shirts and jeans shifted to Vietnam, Bangladesh and Pakistan. As
each country benefited from the growth of manufacturing, the supply of labor got tighter, and workers
became able to demand higher wages. Per-capita incomes and standards of living rose, expanding the
middle class and strengthening domestic consumption. Higher wages in one country caused the mantle of
lowest-cost manufacturer to pass to others. Wages may have risen locally, but as a consequence, the
search for low-margin, low-skill work moved on to new low-cost venues.

Asia's ability to produce goods inexpensively soon led U.S. companies to capitalize on Asia's advantages
by (a) building factories abroad and (b) hiring Asian contractors to do manufacturing for them. The
reasons are clear: vastly lower wages and fewer protections for workers, which permitted long days and

poor labor conditions that wouldn't be tolerated in the U.S. The result was more jobs for non-U.S.
workers, economic growth for the countries where the manufacturing was done, increased
competitiveness for U.S. importers, and bargain-priced goods for American consumers.

In addition, offshoring undoubtedly contributed substantially to the low level of inflation
experienced in the U.S. over the last 40 years. One popular gauge of inflation, the Personal
Consumption Expenditures (PCE) deflator, rose by only 1.8% per year from 1995 (importantly, the blast-
off point for Chinese exports to the U.S.) through 2020. Inflation was considered tame at that level, and,
in fact, many in business and government wished it were a bit higher. But a look inside the numbers is
instructive:

 Personal Consumption Expenditures Annual Inflation Share of PCE

 Source: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FRED database; AmosWEB

It's startling to note that the prices of durables fell by almost 40% over the 25 years in question.
The availability of ever-cheaper goods like cars, appliances and furniture produced abroad was a major
contributor to the benign U.S. inflation picture in this quarter-century. Likewise, although prices of non-
durables didn't actually come down, cheap imports of items like clothing helped keep the lid on prices
overall. This was an important benefit of globalization for the net-importing nations.

On the other hand, offshoring also led to the elimination of millions of U.S. jobs, the hollowing out
of the manufacturing regions and middle class of our country, and most likely the weakening of
private-sector labor unions.

 Ford, for example, reported in 1992 that 53 percent of its employees worked in the U.S.
 and Canada. By 2009, its North American workforce (by then Ford had expanded to
 Mexico) made up only 37 percent of total payroll. (The Week, January 11, 2015)

Capitalism is based on the desire to maximize income. Globalization allows production to be
performed where the costs are lowest. The combination of these two powerful forces has had a
profound influence on the world over the last half-century.

Semiconductors present an outstanding example of this trend. Many of the most important early
developments in electronics - transistors, integrated circuits, and semiconductors - took place at U.S.
companies such as Bell Labs and Fairchild Semiconductor. In 1990, the U.S. and Europe were
responsible for over 80% of global semiconductor production. By 2020, their share was estimated to be
only around 20% (data from Boston Consulting Group and the Semiconductor Industry Association).
Taiwan (led by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC)) and South Korea (essentially
Samsung) have taken the place of the U.S. and Europe as the largest producers of semiconductors.
Today, "TSMC and Samsung are the only companies capable of producing today's most advanced 5-
nanometer chips that go into iPhones." (Visual Capitalist) The upshot is well known:

 While pandemic-induced shutdowns have hampered supply, the demand for chips has
 continued surging with reopening economies. The resulting chip shortage has rattled

 several industries with lead times - the gap between when a semiconductor is ordered and
 when it is delivered is at a record high of 22 weeks.

 The chip shortage is a boon to semiconductor companies, but downstream firms are
 struggling. Global automakers are set to make 7.7 million fewer cars in 2021, which
 translates into a $210 billion hit to their revenues. Consumer electronics have taken a
 blow as well, with popular products like the PlayStation 5 console in short supply.
 (Visual Capitalist)

The Common Thread

So, what's the connection? U.S. companies' foreign sourcing, in particular with regard to
semiconductors, differs from Europe's energy emergency in many ways. But both are marked by
inadequate supply of an essential good demanded by countries or companies that permitted
themselves to become reliant on others. And considering how critical electronics are to U.S.
national security - what today in terms of surveillance, communications, analysis and
transportation isn't reliant on electronics? - this vulnerability could, at some point, come back to
bite the U.S. in the same way that dependence on Russian energy resources has the European
Union.

How did the world get into this position? How did Europe become so dependent on Russian exports of
energy commodities, and how did such a high percentage of semiconductors and other goods destined for
the U.S. come to be manufactured abroad? Just as Europe allowed its energy dependence to increase due
to its desire to be more green, U.S. businesses came to rely increasingly on materials, components, and
finished goods from abroad to remain price-competitive and deliver greater profits.

Key geopolitical developments in recent decades included (a) the perception that the world was shrinking,
due to improvements in transportation and communications, and (b) the relative peace of the world,
stemming from:

 • the dismantling of the Berlin Wall;
 • the fall of the USSR;
 • the low perceived threat from nuclear arms (thanks to the realization that their use would assure
 mutual destruction);
 • the absence of conflicts that could escalate into a multi-national war; and
 • the shortness of memory, which permits people to believe benign conditions will remain so.

Together, these developments gave rise to a huge swing of the pendulum toward globalization and
thus countries' interdependence. Companies and countries found that massive benefits could be
tapped by looking abroad for solutions, and it was easy to overlook or minimize potential pitfalls.

As a result, in recent decades, countries and companies have been able to opt for what seemed to be the
cheapest and easiest solutions, and perhaps the greenest. Thus, the choices made included reliance on
distant sources of supply and just-in-time ordering.

(As an aside, I acknowledge that in countries with less-well-developed economies, environmental
protection, high safety and labor standards, and green behavior may sometimes be considered
unaffordable luxuries. Thus offshoring may allow companies to engage in practices that wouldn't be
acceptable at home - low-cost manufacturing based on burning coal is a good example. In this way,

offshoring may help a company's or even a country's domestic profile while being bad for the world as a
whole.)

As I've written in the past, economics is the science of choice (the same seems true of geopolitics,
although there's even less science regarding that realm.) Few options in these fields offer only
positives and no negatives. Most entail tradeoffs. However, the negatives often become apparent
"only when the tide goes out," as they have recently. The invasion of Ukraine has shown that Europe's
importation of oil and gas from Russia has left it vulnerable to a hostile, unprincipled nation (worse in this
case - to such an individual) at the same time that winding down nuclear power generation has increased
the region's need for imported oil and gas. The practice of offshore procurement similarly makes
countries and companies dependent on their positive relations with foreign nations and the efficacy of our
transportation system.

The recognition of these negative aspects of globalization has now caused the pendulum to swing
back toward local sourcing. Rather than the cheapest, easiest and greenest sources, there'll probably be
more of a premium put on the safest and surest. For example, both U.S. and non-U.S. companies have
announced that they intend to build new foundries to produce semiconductors in the U.S. And I imagine
many U.S. importers of materials, components and finished goods are looking for sources closer to home.
Similarly, it's now less likely that Germany will follow through on its plan to turn off its three remaining
nuclear reactors on December 31 and more likely that it will reactivate the three it retired at the end of
2021 (and perhaps, with the rest of Europe, recalibrate the balance between energy imports and domestic
energy production).

If the pendulum continues to move for a while in the direction I foresee, there will be ramifications for
investors. Globalization has been a boon for worldwide GDP, the nations whose economies it has lifted,
and the companies that reduced costs by buying abroad. The swing away will be less favorable in those
regards, but it may (a) improve importers' security, (b) increase the competitiveness of onshore producers
and the number of domestic manufacturing jobs, and (c) create investment opportunities in the transition.

For how long will the pendulum swing away from globalization and toward onshoring? The answer
depends in part on how the current situations are resolved and in part on which force wins: the need for
dependability and security or the desire for cheap sourcing.

 * * *

In complex fields like economics and geopolitics, there are few easy decisions - just choices, many of
them very difficult. There are too many moving parts, too many unknowns, and too many pros and cons
whose merits can't be weighed quantitatively. What sits on either side of the scale doesn't necessarily
change much, but the pendulum swings radically in terms of how those things are viewed and weighted in
the decision.

Here's what I wrote in On Regulation concerning the swing of the pendulum toward and away from
regulation of the financial markets:

 It's my belief that because both free markets and regulation are imperfect - and because
 of the strength of people's political and philosophical biases - we will never settle
 permanently on either a completely free market or a thoroughly regulated system. Any
 position will prove merely temporary, and the pendulum will continue to swing toward
 one end of the spectrum and then back toward the other.

If you substitute the words "offshoring" and "domestic sourcing" for "free markets" and "regulation,"
then this passage just as accurately describes the choice between the cheapest sourcing and the most
secure sourcing. This absence of perfect, permanent solutions is characteristic of pendulums - it's
why they swing. And after many decades of globalization and cost minimization, I think we're about to
find investment opportunities in the swing toward reliable supply.


Memo: Bull Market Rhymes.

While I employ a great many adages and quotes in my writings, my main go-to list consists of a relatively
small number. One of my favorites is widely attributed to Mark Twain: "History doesn't repeat itself, but
it does rhyme." It's well documented that Twain used the first four words in 1874, but there's no clear
evidence that he ever said the rest. Many others have said something similar over the years, and in 1965
psychoanalyst Theodor Reik said essentially the same thing in an essay titled "The Unreachables." It
took him a few more words, but I think his formulation is the best:

 There are recurring cycles, ups and downs, but the course of events is essentially the
 same, with small variations. It has been said that history repeats itself. This is perhaps
 not quite correct; it merely rhymes.

The events of investment history don't repeat, but familiar themes do recur, especially behavioral themes.
It's these that I study.

In the last two years, we've seen dramatic examples of the ups and downs Reik wrote about. And I've
been struck by the reappearance of some classic themes in investor behavior. They'll be the topic of this
memo.

I want to mention up front that this memo has nothing to do with assessing the markets' likely
direction from here. Bullish behavior came out of the pandemic-related bottom of March 2020; since
then, significant problems have developed inside the economy (inflation) and outside (Ukraine); and
there's been a significant correction. No one, including me, knows what the sum of those things
implies for the future.

I'm writing only to place recent events in the context of history and point out a few implied lessons. This
is important, because we have to go back 22 years - to before the bursting of the tech-media-telecom
bubble in 2000 - to see what I consider a real bull market and the ending of the resultant bear
market, and I imagine many of my readers entered the investment world too late to have experienced that
event. You may ask, "What about the market gains that preceded the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09
and the pandemic-related collapse of 2020?" In my view, in both cases, the preceding appreciation was
gradual, not parabolic; it wasn't driven by overheated psychology; and it didn't take stock prices to crazy
heights. Moreover, high stock prices weren't the cause of either crisis. The excesses in the former lay in
the housing market and the creation of securities backed by sub-prime mortgages, and the latter collapse
was a consequence of the arrival of Covid-19 and the government's decision to shut down the economy to
limit the spread of the disease.

When I refer above to "a real bull market," I'm not talking about standard definitions such as these from
Investopedia:

 • A period of time in financial markets when the price of an asset or security rises
 continuously
 • A situation in which stock prices rise by 20%, usually after a drop of 20%

The first of these is too bland, failing to capture a bull market's emotional essence, and the second
attempts false precision. A bull market shouldn't be defined as a percentage price movement. For me,
it's best described by what it feels like, the psychology behind it, and the behavior that psychology
leads to.

(I started investing before the development of numerical criteria for bull and bear markets, and I consider
such yardsticks meaningless. Take a look, for example, at a couple of recent newspaper articles. On May
20, the S&P 500 Index's decline from the top passed the "magic" 20% threshold; thus on May 21 the
Financial Times wrote, "Wall Street stocks slumped into a bear market yesterday . . ." But because a late
rally reduced the final decline to just under 20%, the headline of the same day's New York Times read,
"S&P 500 Drops . . . but Evades Bear Market." Does it really matter whether the S&P 500 is down
19.9% or 20.1%? I prefer the old-school definition of a bear market: nerve-racking.)

Excesses and Corrections

My second book is Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side. It's well known that I'm
a student of cycles and a believer in cycles. I've lived through (and been schooled by) several significant
cycles during my years as an investor. I believe understanding where we stand in the market cycle can
give us a hint regarding what's coming next. And yet, when I was about two-thirds of the way through
writing that book, a question dawned on me that I hadn't considered before: Why do we have cycles?

For example, if the S&P 500 has returned just over 10% a year on average over the 65 years since it
assumed its present form in 1957, why doesn't it just return 10% every year? And updating a question I
asked in my memo The Happy Medium (July 2004), why has its annual return been between 8% and 12%
just six times during this period? Why is it so far from the mean 90% of the time?

After pondering this question for a while, I landed on what I consider the explanation: excesses and
corrections. If the stock market was a machine, it might be reasonable to expect it to perform
consistently over time. Instead, I think the substantial influence of psychology on investors'
decision-making largely explains the market's gyrations.

When investors turn highly bullish, they tend to conclude that (a) everything's going to go up forever and
(b) regardless of what they pay for an asset, someone else will come along to buy it from them for more
(the "greater-fool theory"). Because of the high level of optimism:

 • Stock prices rise faster than company profits, soaring well above fair value (excess to the
 upside).
 • Eventually, conditions in the investment environment disappoint, and/or the folly of the elevated
 prices becomes clear, and they fall back toward fair value (correction) and then through it.
 • The price declines generate further pessimism, and this process eventually causes prices to far
 understate the value of stocks (excess to the downside).
 • Resultant buying on the part of bargain-hunters causes the depressed prices to recover toward fair
 value (correction).

The excess to the upside makes for a period of above average returns, and the swing toward excess on the
downside makes for a period of below average returns. There can be many other factors at work, of
course, but in my view, "excesses and corrections" covers most of the ground. We saw a number of
excesses to the upside in 2020-21, and now we're seeing corrections thereof.

Bull Market Psychology

In a bull market, favorable developments lead to price rises and lift investor psychology. Positive
psychology induces aggressive behavior. Aggressive behavior leads to higher prices. Rising prices
encourage rosier psychology and further risk-taking. This upward spiral is the essence of a bull market.
When it's underway, it feels unstoppable.

We saw a classic collapse of asset prices in the early days of the pandemic. For example, the S&P 500
reached a then-all-time high of 3,386 on February 19, 2020 before falling by one-third in just 34 days to a
low of 2,237 on March 23. After that, a number of forces combined to produce massive price gains:

 • The Federal Reserve cut the fed funds rate to roughly zero, and the Fed was joined by the
 Treasury in announcing massive stimulative measures.
 • These actions convinced investors that these institutions would do whatever it took to stabilize the
 economy.
 • The interest rate cut significantly reduced the prospective returns required to make investments
 look attractive in relative terms.
 • The combination of these factors forced investors to bear risks they had been running from just a
 short time earlier.
 • Asset prices rose: by late August, the S&P 500 had retraced its decline and surpassed its February
 high.
 • The FAAMGs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Google), software stocks, and other
 tech stocks rose dramatically, pushing the market higher.
 • Eventually, investors concluded - as they often do when things are going well - that they
 could expect more of the same.

The most important thing about bull market psychology is that, as cited in the final bullet point
above, most people take rising stock prices as a positive sign of things to come. Many are converted
to optimism. Relatively few suspect that the gains to date might have been excessive and borrowed from
future returns and that they presage reversal, not continuation.

That reminds me of another of my favorite adages - one of the first ones I learned, roughly 50 years ago -
"the three stages of a bull market":

 • the first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better,
 • the second, when most investors realize improvement is actually underway, and
 • the third, when everyone concludes that things will get better forever.

It's interesting to note that even though the market moved from despondent in March 2020 to booming in
May, largely thanks to the Fed, the most frequent attitude I encountered during that period was
dubiousness. And the question I was asked most frequently was "If the environment is so bad - with the
pandemic raging and the economy shuttered - isn't it wrong for the market to rise?" It was hard to find
any optimists. Many of the buyers were what my late father-in-law used to call "handcuff volunteers":
they didn't buy because they wanted to; they bought because they had to, since the return on cash was so
low. And once markets started to rise, people were afraid of being left behind, so they chased prices
higher. Thus, the market gains seemed to be the result of the Fed's manipulation of the capital markets,
rather than positive corporate developments or optimistic psychology. It was only around the end of 2020
- when the S&P 500 was up by 16.3% for the year and 67.9% from the March bottom - that investor
psychology caught up with the booming stock prices.

The bull market of 2020 was unprecedented in my experience, in that there was essentially no first stage
and very little of the second. Many investors went straight from hopeless in late March to highly
optimistic later in the year. This is a great reminder that, while some themes do recur, it's a big
mistake to expect history to repeat exactly.

Optimistic Rationales, Super Stocks, and the New, New Thing

Raging bull markets are examples of mass hysteria. At the extreme, thinking and thus behavior become
unmoored from reality. In order for this to occur, however, there has to be some factor that activates
investors' imagination and discourages prudence. Thus, special attention should be paid to an element
that almost always characterizes bull markets: a new development, invention or justification for the rising
stock prices.

Bull markets are, by definition, characterized by exuberance, confidence, credulousness, and a
willingness to pay high prices for assets - all at levels that are shown in retrospect to have been
excessive. History has generally shown the importance of keeping these things in moderation. For
that reason, the intellectual or emotional rationale for a bull market is often based on something
new that history can't be used to discount.

Those last six words are very important. History amply demonstrates that when (a) markets exhibit
bullish behavior, (b) valuations become excessive, and (c) the latest thing is accepted without hesitation,
the consequences are often very painful. Everyone knows - or should know - that parabolic stock market
advances are generally followed by declines of 20-50%. Yet those advances occur and recur, abetted by
what I learned in high school English class to call "the willing suspension of disbelief." Here's another of
my very favorite quotes:

 Contributing to . . . euphoria are two further factors little noted in our time or in past
 times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory. In consequence,
 financial disaster is quickly forgotten. In further consequence, when the same or closely
 similar circumstances occur again, sometimes in only a few years, they are hailed by a
 new, often youthful, and always supremely self-confident generation as a brilliantly
 innovative discovery in the financial and larger economic world. There can be few fields
 of human endeavor in which history counts for so little as in the world of finance. Past
 experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive
 refuge of those who do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of
 the present. (John Kenneth Galbraith, A Short History of Financial Euphoria, 1990 -
 emphasis added)

I've shared that quote with readers many times over the last 30 years - since I think it so beautifully sums
up a number of important points - but I haven't previously shared my explanation for the behavior it
describes. I don't think investors are actually forgetful. Rather, knowledge of history and the
appropriateness of prudence sit on one side of the balance, and the dream of getting rich sits on the
other. The latter always wins. Memory, prudence, realism, and risk aversion would only get in the
way of that dream. For this reason, reasonable concerns are regularly dismissed when bull markets
get going.

What appears in their place is often intellectual justifications for valuations that exceed historical norms.
On October 11, 1987, Anise Wallace described this phenomenon in an article in The New York Times
titled "Why This Market Cycle Isn't Different." Optimistic thinking was being embraced at the time to
justify unusually high stock prices, but Wallace said it wouldn't hold:

 The four most dangerous words in investing are "this time it's different," according to
 John Templeton, the 74-year-old mutual fund manager. At stock market tops and
 bottoms, investors invariably use this rationale to justify their emotion-driven decisions.

 Over the next year, many investors are likely to repeat those four words as they defend
 higher stock prices. But they should treat them with the same consideration they give
 "the check's in the mail." No matter what brokers or money managers say, bull markets
 do not last forever.

It didn't take a year. Just eight days later, the world experienced "Black Monday," when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average dropped by 22.6% in a single day.

Another justification for bull markets is often found in the belief that certain businesses are guaranteed to
enjoy a terrific future. This applies to the Nifty-Fifty growth companies in the late 1960s; disc drive
manufacturers in the '80s; and telecom, Internet and e-commerce companies in the late '90s. Each of
these developments was believed to be capable of changing the world, such that the past realities of
business need not constrain investors' imaginations and willingness to pay up. And they did change
the world. Nevertheless, the highly elevated asset valuations they were thought to justify didn't hold.

In many bull markets, one or more groups are anointed as what I call "super stocks." Their rapid rise
makes investors increasingly optimistic. In the circular process that often characterizes the
markets, this rising optimism takes the stocks to still-higher prices. And some of this positivity and
appreciation reflects favorably on other groups of securities - or all securities - through relative-
value comparisons and/or because of the general improvement in investors' mood.

Topping the list of companies that fed investors' excitement in 2020-21 were the FAAMGs, whose level
of market dominance and ability to scale had never been seen before. The dramatic performance of the
FAAMGs in 2020 attracted the attention of investors and supported a widespread swing toward
bullishness. By September 2020 (that is, within six months), these stocks had nearly doubled from their
March lows and were up 61% from the beginning of the year. Notably, these five stocks are heavily
weighted in the S&P 500, so their performance resulted in a good overall gain for the index, but this
distracted attention from the far-less-impressive performance of the other 495 stocks. The performance of
the super stocks inflamed investors' ardor, enabling them to disregard worries regarding the persistence of
the pandemic or other risks.

Source: Goldman Sachs

The raging success of the FAAMGs created a luster that reflected positively on tech stocks in general.
Demand soared for stocks in the sector and, as is usual in the investment world, strong demand
encouraged and enabled supply. One notable barometer in this case is the attitude toward IPOs from
unprofitable companies. Prior to the tech bubble of the late 1990s, IPOs from companies that didn't make
money were relatively rare. They became the norm during the bubble, but their number sunk again
thereafter. In the 2020-21 bull market, IPOs from unprofitable companies experienced a big resurgence,
as investors easily made allowance for tech companies' desire to scale and biotech companies' need to
spend on drug trials.

If companies with bright futures provide fuel for bull markets, things that are new to the markets can
supercharge market excesses. SPACs are a great recent example. Investors gave these newly formed
vehicles blank checks for acquisitions on the proviso that investors could get their money back with
interest (a) if no acquisition was consummated within two years or (b) if investors didn't like the
acquisition that was proposed. This seemed like a "no-lose proposition" (three of the most dangerous
words in the world), and the number of SPACs organized soared from just 10 in 2013 and 59 in 2019 to
248 in 2020 and 613 in 2021. Some produced big profits, and in other cases investors took back their
money with interest. But the lack of skepticism surrounding this relatively untested innovation - fueled
by bull market psychology - allowed too many SPACs to be created, by competent and incompetent
organizers alike who would be highly paid for pulling off an acquisition . . . any acquisition.

Today, the average SPAC that de-SPAC-ed since 2020 by completing an acquisition (in each case, with
the approval of its investors) is selling at $5.25, versus its issue price of $10.00. This is a good example
of a new thing that turned out to be less dependable than investors - who fell once again for a can't-lose
silver bullet - had thought. SPACs' defenders argue that these vehicles are just an alternative way to take
companies public, but their potential usefulness isn't my concern. I'm focused on how readily investors
embraced an untested innovation in hot times.

Another dynamic involving novel factors deserves mention, since it exemplifies the way "the new thing"
can contribute to bull markets:

 • Robinhood Markets began offering commission-free trading in stocks, ETFs and cryptocurrencies
 in the years before the pandemic. Once the Covid-19 crisis hit, this encouraged people to "play
 the stock market," as casinos and sports events were closed for betting.
 • Generous stimulus checks were sent to millions who hadn't lost their jobs, meaning many people
 saw their disposable income rise during the pandemic.
 • Bulletin boards like Reddit turned investing into a social activity for people shut in at home.
 • As a result, large numbers of novice retail investors were recruited online, many of whom lacked
 the experience needed to know what constitutes investment merit.
 • Newcomers were stirred by a popular cult figure who said, "stocks only go up."
 • As a result, many tech and "meme stocks" soared.

The final element worth discussing is cryptocurrency. Proponents of Bitcoin, for example, cite its variety
of uses, as well as the limited supply relative to the potential demand. Skeptics, on the other hand, point
to Bitcoin's lack of cash flow and intrinsic value and thus the impossibility of assigning a fair price.
Regardless of which side will turn out to be right, Bitcoin satisfies some characteristics of a bull market
beneficiary:

 • It's relatively new (although it has been around for 14 years, it's been in most people's
 consciousness for only five).
 • It enjoyed a dramatic price spike, rising from $5,000 in 2020 to a high of $68,000 in 2021.
 • And it's certainly something that, per Galbraith, prior generations "do not have the insight to
 appreciate."
 • In all these regards, it perfectly satisfies Galbraith's description of something "hailed by a new,
 often youthful, and always supremely self-confident generation as a brilliantly innovative
 discovery in the financial . . . world."

Bitcoin is off a little more than half from its 2021 high, but others among the thousands of
cryptocurrencies that have been created have declined much more.

The striking performance of the FAAMGs, tech stocks generally, SPACs, meme stocks and
cryptocurrencies in 2020 reinforced the craze for them and added to investors' general optimism. It's
hard to imagine a full-throated bull market arising in the absence of something that's never been
seen or heard before. The "new, new thing" and belief that "this time it's different" are shining
examples of recurring bull market themes.

The Race to the Bottom

Another bull market theme that rhymes from cycle to cycle is the deleterious impact of bull market
trends on the quality of investors' decision-making. In short, when burning optimism takes over from
levelheadedness:

 • asset prices rise,
 • greed grows relative to fear,
 • fear of missing out replaces fear of losing money, and
 • risk aversion and caution evaporate.

It's essential to bear in mind that it's risk aversion and the fear of loss that keep markets safe and
sane. The developments listed above typically combine to lift markets, drive out cautious investigation
and deliberation, and make the markets a dangerous place.

In my 2007 memo The Race to the Bottom, I explained that when there's too much money in the hands of
investors and providers of capital and they're too eager to put it to work, they bid too aggressively for
securities and the chance to lend. Their spirited bidding drives down prospective returns, drives up risk,
weakens security structures, and reduces the margin for error.

 • The cautious investor, sticking to her guns, says, "I insist on 8% interest and strong covenants."
 • Her competitor responds, "I'll accept 7% interest and demand fewer covenants."
 • The least disciplined, not wanting to miss the opportunity, says, "I'll settle for 6% interest and no
 covenants."

This is the race to the bottom. This is why it's often said that "the worst of loans are made in the
best of times." This is something that can't happen when people are smarting from recent losses
and afraid of experiencing more. It's not a coincidence that the record-long 10-plus-year economic
recovery and stock market rise that followed the Fed's massive response to the Global Financial Crisis
were accompanied by:

 • a wave of IPOs from money-losing companies;
 • record issuance of sub-investment grade securities, including risky CCC-rated debt;
 • debt issuance from companies in volatile industries such as tech and software that lenders are
 likely to shun in more cautious times;
 • rising valuation multiples on acquisitions and buyouts; and
 • shrinking risk premiums.

Favorable developments also encourage the increased use of leverage. Leverage magnifies gains and
losses, but in bull markets, investors feel sure of gains and disregard the possibility of loss. Under such
conditions, few can see a reason not to incur debt - with its piddling interest cost - to increase the payoff
from their successes. But putting more debt on investments made at high prices late in the up-cycle is no
formula for success. When times turn bad, leverage turns disadvantageous. And when investment banks
issue late-cycle debt that they can't place with buyers, they're stuck with it. Debt "hung" on banks'
balance sheets is often a "canary in the coal mine" with regard to what's in store.

Since I'm relying on time-worn investment adages, it's appropriate at this point to invoke the one I
consider the greatest regarding investor behavior over cycles: "What the wise man does in the
beginning, the fool does in the end." People who buy in stage one of a bull market, when prices are low
because of prevailing pessimism (such as during the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09 and in the early
days of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020), have the potential to earn high prospective returns with little
risk: the main prerequisites are money to spend and the nerve to spend it. But when bull markets heat
up and good returns encourage investors' optimism, the traits that are rewarded are eagerness,
credulousness, and risk-taking. In stage three of a bull market, new entrants buy aggressively,
keeping it aloft for a while. Caution, selectivity, and discipline go out the window just when they're
needed most.

Particularly noteworthy is the fact that investors who are in a good mood and being rewarded for risk
tolerance typically cease to practice discernment regarding investment opportunities. Not only do
investors consider it a certainty that some examples of "the new thing" will succeed, but eventually they
conclude that everything in that sector will do well, so differentiating is unnecessary.

Because of all the above, the term "bull market psychology" isn't a positive. It connotes carefree
behavior and a high level of risk tolerance, and investors should find it worrisome, not encouraging.
As Warren Buffett puts it, "The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the
prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs." Investors have to know when bull market
psychology is in ascendance and apply the required caution.

The Pendulum Swings

Bull markets don't arise out of thin air. The winners in each bull market are winners for the
simple reason that a grain of truth underlies their gains. However, the bullishness I've described
above tends to exaggerate the merits and pushes security prices to levels that are excessive and thus
vulnerable. And the upward swing doesn't last forever.

In On the Couch (January 2016), I wrote, "in the real world, things generally fluctuate between 'pretty
good' and 'not so hot.' But in the world of investing, perception often swings from 'flawless' to
'hopeless.'" The way things are seriously overdone in the markets is one of the key characteristics of
investor behavior. During bull markets, investors conclude that difficult, unlikely, and unprecedented
things are sure to work. But in less ebullient times, favorable economic news and "earnings beats" fail to

inspire buying, and rising prices no longer make life painful for people who are underinvested. Thus, we
stop seeing the willing suspension of disbelief, and psychology flips to negativism.

The key lies in the fact that investors are capable of interpreting virtually any piece of news either
positively or negatively, depending on how it's reported and on their mood. (The cartoon below, one
of my all-time favorites, was published many decades ago - check out those rabbit ears and the depth of
the TV set - but clearly the caption is relevant to this very moment.)

Reflecting the "flawless-to-hopeless" progression I mentioned earlier, prevailing narratives are subject to
reversal. While the argument supporting the bull market may have been reasonably likely to hold,
investors treated it as ironclad when all was going well. When some of the argument's flaws come to
light, however, it's dismissed as all wrong.

 • In the happy season (all of a year ago), the tech bulls said, "You have to buy growth stocks for
 their decades of potential earnings increases." But now, after a significant decline, we instead
 hear, "Investing based on future potential is too risky. You have to stick to value stocks for their
 ascertainable present value and reasonable prices."
 • Likewise, in the heady times, participants in IPOs of money-losing companies said, "There's
 nothing wrong with companies that report losses. They're justified in spending to scale up." But
 in the present correction, many say, "Who would invest in unprofitable companies? They're just
 cash incinerators."

People who haven't spent much time watching markets may believe that asset prices are all about
fundamentals, but that's certainly not so. The price of an asset is based on fundamentals and how people
view those fundamentals. So the change in an asset price is based on a change in fundamentals and/or a
change in how people view those fundamentals. Company fundamentals are theoretically subject to

something called "analysis" and possibly even prediction. On the other hand, attitudes regarding
fundamentals are psychological/emotional, not subject to analysis or prediction, and capable of
changing much faster and more dramatically. There are adages that capture this dimension, too:

 • The air goes out of the balloon much faster than it goes in.
 • It takes longer for things to happen than you thought it would, but then they happen much faster
 than you thought they could.

As for the latter, in my experience, we often see positive or negative fundamental developments pile up
for a good while, with no reaction on the part of security prices. But then a tipping point is reached -
either fundamental or psychological - and the whole pile suddenly gets reflected in prices, sometimes to
excess.

Then What Happens?

Bull markets don't treat all sectors the same. In bull markets, as I discussed earlier, optimism coalesces
most powerfully around certain groups of securities, such as "the new thing" or "super stocks." These
rise the most, become emblematic of the bull in this period, and attract further buying. The media pay
these sectors the most attention, extending the process. In 2020-21, the FAAMGs and other tech stocks
were the best examples of this phenomenon.

It goes without saying - but I'll say it anyway - that investors holding large amounts of the things that
lead in each bull market do very well. And fund managers who are smart enough or lucky enough to be
dedicated exclusively to those things report the highest returns while optimism prevails and show up on
the front page of newspapers and on cable TV shows. In the past, I've said our business is full of
people who got famous for being right once in a row. That can go double for fund managers who
are smart or lucky enough to be overweight the sectors that lead a bull market.

However, the stocks that rise the most in the up years often experience the greatest declines in the down
years. The applicable adages here are from the real world, but that doesn't reduce their relevance: "live
by the sword, die by the sword;" "what goes up must come down;" and "the bigger they are, the harder
they fall":

 • One tech fund rose by 157% in 2020, moving from obscurity to fame. But it lost 23% in 2021
 and is down another 57% so far in 2022. $100 invested at year-end 2019 was worth $257 a year
 later, but that's down to $85 today.
 • Another tech fund, somewhat less volatile, was up by 48% in 2020 but is down by 48% since.
 Unfortunately, up 48% and down 48% don't combine to produce zero change, but rather a net
 decline of $22 per $100 invested.
 • A third tech fund was up a startling 291% in year one, but it fell by 21%, 60%, and 61% in the
 three years that followed. $100 invested at the beginning of this four-year period was worth $43
 at the end, a decline of 89% from the end of that incredible first year. But wait a minute: there
 haven't been four years in the current boom/bust. No, the results I cite are from 1999-2002, when
 the last tech bubble inflated and collapsed. I include them only as a reminder that the current
 performance pattern is a recurrence.

Earlier I mentioned Robinhood, the originator of commission-free trading. It epitomized the role of the
digital in the 2020-21 bull market. Robinhood went public in July 2021 at $38, and over the next week,
the stock price shot up to $85. Today it's at $10, an 88% drop from the high in less than a year.

But the equity averages aren't doing that badly, right? The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite is "only" down
27.4% in 2022. One of the characteristics of this bull market is that the biggest companies' stocks -
which are the most heavily weighted - have done the best, buoying the indices. Consider what that
implies for the rest; 22% of Nasdaq stocks are down at least 50%. (Data here and below are as of May

Here are the declines from the top of some well-known tech/digital/innovation stocks that I picked at
random. Maybe there are a few here that, when they were at their peak, you kicked yourself for not
having bought:

Let's say you still believe market prices are set by a consensus of intelligent investors on the basis of
fundamentals. If that's the case, then why are all these stocks down by such large percentages? And do
you really believe the value of these businesses has more than halved on average in the last few months?
This line of inquiry leads to something else I think about often. On days when the stock market makes its
biggest moves, Bitcoin often moves in the same direction. Is there any fundamental reason why the two
should be correlated? The same goes for international links: when Japan starts off the day with a big
decline, Europe and the U.S. often follow suit. And sometimes it seems U.S. stocks lead and it's Japan
that falls in line. Are these countries' fundamentals connected enough to justify co-movement?

My answer to all these questions is generally "no." The common thread isn't fundamentals: it's
psychology, and when the latter changes significantly, all of these things are similarly affected.

The Lessons

As always for students of investing, what matters most isn't what events transpired in a given period of
time, but what we can learn from these events. And there's a lot to be learned from the trends in 2020-21
that rhymed with those in previous cycles. In bull markets:

 • Optimism builds around the things that are doing spectacularly well.
 • The impact is strongest when the upswing arises from a particularly depressed base in terms of
 psychology and prices.
 • Bull market psychology is accompanied by a lack of worry and a high level of risk tolerance, and
 thus highly aggressive behavior. Risk-bearing is rewarded, and the need for thorough diligence is
 ignored.

 • High returns reinforce belief in the new, the unlikely, and the optimistic. When the crowd
 becomes convinced of those things' merit, they tend to conclude "there's no price too high."
 • These influences cool eventually, after they (and prices) have reached unsustainable levels.
 • Elevated markets are vulnerable to exogenous events, like Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
 • The assets that rose the most - and the investors who over-weighted them - often experience
 painful reversals.

These are themes I've seen play out numerous times during my career. None of them relates exclusively
to fundamental developments. Rather, their causes are largely psychological, and the way psychology
works is unlikely to change. That's why I'm sure that as long as humans are involved in the
investment process, we'll see them recur time and time again.

And, as a reminder, since the major ups and downs of the markets are primarily driven by psychology, it's
clear that market movements can only be predicted, if ever, when prices are at absurd highs or lows.


Memo: Conversation at Panmure House.

I recently was asked by Patrick Schotanus of Edinburgh Business School to participate in their
inaugural symposium on the subject of cognitive economics. The symposium took place at Panmure
House, the final residence of the great economist Adam Smith, and the theme was the Market Mind
Hypothesis (MMH), which Patrick developed. I spent an hour recording a video interview with him,
which on May 24 was shown at the symposium and followed by a live question-and-answer session.
We then used software to create a transcript of the taped interview. I've edited it only to make my
remarks more intelligible and less painful to read (without changing their message); any serious
additions are shown in brackets.

While little of my content is totally new (in fact, you might recognize some thoughts that I went on
to incorporate in Bull Market Rhymes), it seems only right to share it with Oaktree's clients because
it's never all been presented in one place before. I hope you'll find something worthwhile in the
conversation.

 * * *

Patrick Schotanus: Hello, Howard. Thank you first of all for participating in our symposium by way
of this fireside interview, in which we'll discuss some of your memos as well as other reflections that
you've shared with investors over the years. For the benefit of our multidisciplinary audience, I'll
introduce some of these questions with some explanatory background, especially from a cognitive
angle. So I'd like to start with a few questions by MMH team members. The first one is from James
Clunie:

You often write about the concept of the pendulum. More recently, in a podcast, you applied it to
international affairs. While the pendulum appears at first glance to be a mechanical model,
importantly, you have also applied it to human psychology, especially mood swings. These fit much
more with a spontaneous "market mind," which you have also referred to, for example, in your
memo You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare. Consequently, the question is, in what way and to what
extent is the pendulum mechanical? For example, would it be correct to say that while the pendulum
implies mean reversion, the latter is not a mechanical process and is thus difficult to predict?

 HM: Thanks for that question, Patrick. I'm very pleased to be discussing these topics with you.
 As you know, they're something I'm fixated on, and it's great to have someone to talk with
 about them. I think the pendulum is a good example of many of the things we're going to
 discuss today. It's an idea. It's a concept. The idea is that it's something that swings back and
 forth. Something that oscillates, something that fluctuates around a midpoint. That's the whole
 concept.

 It's certainly not mechanical. In physics, I think the pendulum has certain qualities, and as a
 result, its behavior can be predicted. But in the things I'm talking about, no. As you know, my
 last book, in 2018, was called Mastering the Market Cycle, and I talked a lot in there about the
 pendulum. I got a note from Nick Train of Lindsell Train in London, saying something like, "I
 disagree with you, Howard: this isn't a pendulum. Its movement is not regular, it's not
 predictable, the speed of the fluctuations varies, and their extent varies." And I said, "Nick, let's
 have lunch." So, when I next got to London, we sat down and I explained to him that there are
 multiple definitions of a pendulum. One definition says it's mechanical and thus predictable,
 and governed by the laws of physics. And another definition says that it's a swing."

 In your question to me, Patrick, you used the term "mood swing," and I think understanding it as
 a mood swing is much more useful for our purposes. As this discussion progresses this
 morning, I think the main thrust is going to be that these things are not scientific and thus not
 consistent and repeatable.

PS: Russell Napier, another member, has a related question also covering the mechanical angle.
Mainstream economics, also known as mechanical economics, which partners the unlikely
bedfellows of Neoclassical and Neo-Keynesian economics, views and treats the market as some
automaton, in a way, that can be centrally engineered, planned, and steered. If instead we view the
market as embodying our collective extended mind, acknowledging its warts and all, which obviously
is our thesis, which two episodes in your career would be best suited to study the market mind?

 HM: Russell's question about the two episodes, contained in your last sentence, would limit me
 too much. So, if you don't mind, I'm going to go way beyond that, because I think my answer
 to this question is central to our whole discussion today.

 Your first few words, when you discussed what Russell said, refer to the economy as
 mechanical, and I think that isn't helpful. Applying the word "mechanical" (again, as with the
 first question) suggests that it's governed by the rules of physics, the laws of nature, that it's a
 science, that it performs the same each time, that it's repeatable, studiable and extrapolable.
 And I think these are all wrong.

 And in fact, I aggressively remind people that I'm not an economist, but also that economics is
 called the "dismal science." And I'm not sure it's a science at all, but if it is, it's certainly
 dismal, in the sense that it's not like physics, where if you do A, you always get B. Sometimes
 you get C or sometimes nothing at all. Richard Feynman, the great physicist, once said,
 "Physics would be much harder if electrons had feelings." You walk into a room, you throw the
 light switch, and the light goes on. It always goes on, because every time you throw the switch,
 the electrons flow from the switch to the light. They never forget to flow; they never decide to
 flow in a different direction; they never flow from the light to the switch. They never go on
 strike or complain that they're underpaid.

 So, the point is that economics is not a science, in my opinion. You know, science is all about
 causality and predictability, and if A happens, then B is sure to happen. Well, that's certainly
 not true in economics. If A happens, B might tend to happen most of the time. That doesn't
 make it a science.

 Now let's talk about using these concepts to refer to investing, not economics. I have a
 presentation that I give, called The Human Side of Investing, or the Difference between Theory

 and Practice. It was inspired by a quote from a great philosopher. You may know him (or
 maybe not, since you're mostly not Americans): Yogi Berra. Yogi was a great catcher for the
 New York Yankees baseball team in the 1950s - a highly skilled baseball player, but more
 famous today for the things he said, or maybe he didn't say them. (One of the things Yogi said
 is, "I never said half the things I said.")

 But anyway, he once said, supposedly, that "In theory there's no difference between theory and
 practice, but in practice there is." And to me, that's the essence of this answer to you. It's the
 essence of my work, and in my opinion, it should be the essence of your work and that of your
 colleagues at this conference.

 What we learn in school, in my opinion, and what we should learn in school, is how things are
 supposed to work. That goes for the economy, and that goes for the markets. However, the
 teachers might also help by adding, ". . . but it doesn't always work that way. That's a
 framework; that's a thought model. It certainly doesn't govern all the time." And that's the key.
 Using the term "mechanical" to refer to the economy - or to the markets - is describing the way
 things are supposed to work. The "psychological" or "behavioral" is all about the way things do
 work. And there's a big difference between the two.

 I've spent a lot of my career trying to reconcile the two: the things I learned as a student at the
 University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business 55 years ago and the things I've
 experienced in the markets since then.

 I was introduced to the concept of the efficient market hypothesis and so forth back at Chicago.
 I was very fortunate: those things were developed there mostly, I think, between '62 and '64. I
 got there in '67, so by definition I was in one of the first classes taught these things, and it was
 very helpful to me. Not in the sense that the Chicago School of thought should govern your
 actions, but it should inform them. And, as I say, I've worked hard to reconcile this education
 with what I saw later.

 As an undergraduate, I went to Wharton, which was entirely qualitative and pragmatic. Then I
 went to Chicago, which was entirely quantitative and theoretical. At Chicago, most of the
 professors dismissed anything that was qualitative and pragmatic or "real world." But I took a
 course in investing from James Lorie, who co-headed the Center for Research in Security Prices.
 His course was derided as "Lorie's Stories," because he would bring in actual practitioners every
 couple of weeks to talk about what they did, and that was considered heresy at Chicago. The
 final examination consisted of one question: "You've learned the theory at Chicago, how do you
 square that with real world considerations?" I think that's the key.

 In the late '90s, I wrote a memo called What's It All About, Alpha? You may recall that there
 was a movie called Alfie; I think it starred Michael Caine (it was a long time ago, maybe 40-50
 years ago). It had a theme song, "What's It All About, Alfie?", sung by Dionne Warwick.
 Wonderful song. I borrowed the title and changed it to "Alpha" for a memo talking about
 reconciling the Chicago theory, and in particular the efficient market hypothesis, with the real
 world. In there, I stated my view that the hypothesis says that because of the concerted actions
 of so many investors, security prices are "right," meaning investors price securities so that you
 can expect a fair risk-adjusted return, no more, no less. Again, that's how it's supposed to work,
 but certainly not how it does work.

 I think I said in the conclusion of that memo that if you ignore the efficient market hypothesis,
 you're going to be very disappointed, because you're going to find out that very few of your
 active investment decisions work. But if you swallow it whole, you won't be an investor, and
 you'll give up on active success. So the truth, if there is one, has to lie somewhere in between,
 and that's what I believe.

PS: In fairness to Russell, it was in my introduction to Russell's question [i.e., not in Russell's
question itself] that I said the economy is mechanical and that's the definition of mainstream
economics. Russell and I do not necessarily agree on that. But to continue on mechanical
economics as a theory: In your memo On the Couch, you talk about your own early exposure to the
efficient-market-type classes. For the audience, EMH is based on the rational expectations
hypothesis; EMH states that markets are rational because any pockets of irrationality are averaged
away [i.e., the errors made by the group become smaller than those made by individuals]. In
contrast, you also highlight the reality of irrationality that can be observed in markets, something
that both Alan Greenspan and Robert Shiller called "irrational exuberance." Later, the GFC, or the
Global Financial Crisis, painfully hit home that what seems rational for an individual can be
dangerously irrational if done collectively. So my first question is, can we square this circle? For
example, is irrationality just about semantics, or is it something real that not only exists, but because
of the collective dynamic, can actually threaten the economic system and may thus not necessarily be
averaged away?

 HM: To me, Patrick, the answer lies in my view of the efficient market hypothesis. Again, the
 efficient market hypothesis says that due to the concerted actions of so many investors, who are
 intelligent and numerate and computerized and informed and highly motivated and rational and
 objective and willing to substitute A for B, prices for securities are right, such that they presage
 a fair risk-adjusted return. I believe that's the definition.

 But you get into a problem, because when I listed off the qualities that are necessary for a
 market to be efficient, I snuck in there the economist's notion of the perfect market and its
 requirement that the participants be rational and objective. And in investing, they're not. That's
 really the point.

 "Economic man" is supposed to make all these decisions in a way that optimizes wealth. But
 she often doesn't, because she's not always objective and rational. She has moods. And those
 moods interfere with this arriving at the right price. So my definition of the efficient market
 hypothesis is that because of the concerted efforts of all the participants, the price at a given
 point in time is as close to right as those people can get. And because it's as close to right as
 most of them can get, it's very hard to outperform the market by finding errors - what theory
 calls "inefficiencies" and I just think of as "mistakes."

 Sometimes prices are too high. Sometimes prices are too low. But because the price reflects the
 collective wisdom of all investors on that subject, very few of the individuals can identify those
 mistakes and profit from them. And that's why active investing doesn't consistently work, in
 my opinion. I think my version of the efficient market hypothesis makes it roughly just as hard
 for active managers to beat the market as does the strong form of the hypothesis, that
 everything's always priced right. But I think mine is more reflective of reality. I wrote in one of
 my memos - maybe it was What's It All About, Alpha? - about a stock that was $400 in 2000
 and $2 in 2001. Now it's possible - but to me it's unlikely - that both of those observations
 were "right." Rather, I think they merely reflected the consensus of opinion at the time.

 This business - I shouldn't say "this business"; that sounds derogatory - the idea that
 inefficiencies will be arbitraged away by the operations of the market ignores one of the key
 elements that I think describes reality, and that is mass hysteria. And I think the markets -
 economies too, but more importantly the markets - are subject to mass hysteria.

 I think it was in On the Couch that I said, "in the real world, things fluctuate between pretty
 good and not so hot. But in the markets, they go from flawless to hopeless." Just think about
 that one sentence. If it's true - and I believe it's true - that shows you the error, because nothing
 is flawless and nothing is hopeless. But markets, I believe, treat things as flawless and hopeless,
 and there's the error.

 The book I mentioned, Mastering the Market Cycle (I'm going to keep repeating the title in the
 hope that everybody will buy a copy) . . . You know, I'm a devotee of cycles. I'm a student of
 cycles. I've lived through a half a dozen important cycles in my career. I've thought about
 them. I think they dominate what I do. And I got about two-thirds of the way through writing
 that book and something dawned on me, a question: Why do we have cycles?

 The S&P 500 - I mentioned Jim Lorie - the Center for Research in Security Prices told us
 almost 60 years ago, that from 1928 to '62, the S&P 500 had returned an average of 9.2% a year.
 Things have been better since then, and I think if you go back and look at the whole last 90
 years, it's 101⁄2% a year, the return on the S&P 500.

 Here's a question: Why doesn't it just return 101⁄2% every year? Why sometimes up 20% and
 sometimes down 20%, and so forth? In fact - and I included this factoid in one of my memos -
 it's almost never up between 8% and 12%. So if the average return is 101⁄2%, why isn't the
 return clustered around 101⁄2%? Why is it clustered outside the central range? I think the answer
 is mass hysteria.

 And by the way, the same is true of the economy and mainstream economics, which of course
 you described as mechanical, and I think that many people would describe as mechanical. But,
 certainly, economics is driven by decisions made by people, who are not always rational and
 objective. Maybe in theory they're closer than investors to being rational and objective, but still
 they're not always.

 But anyway, my explanation for the occurrence of cycles is "excesses and corrections." You
 have a secular trend or a "normal" statistic. Let's say it's the secular trend of the S&P 500.
 Sometimes, people get too excited. They buy the stocks too enthusiastically. The prices rise.
 They rise at more than a 101⁄2% annual rate until they get to a price that is unsustainable. And
 then everybody says, "No, I think they're too high." So then they correct back toward the
 trendline. But, of course, given the nature of psychology, they correct through the trendline to
 an excess on the downside. And then people say, "No, that's too low," so then they bring it back
 toward the trendline and through it to an excess on the high side.

 So excesses and corrections: that's what cycles are about, in my opinion. Where do the excesses
 come from? Psychology. People get too optimistic, then they get too pessimistic. They get too
 greedy, then they get too fearful. They become too credulous, then they become too skeptical,
 and so forth. Oh, and the big one: they become too risk-tolerant, and then they become too risk-
 averse.

PS: If I can just follow up on that - particularly for our cognitively inclined audience - implied in
this you suggest that there might be mental causality, and my next questions are basically also to
motivate future research as part of economics revision. But during your September podcast, in
which you revisit the On the Couch memo, you talk about causality and how complex it can be. And
we agree and highlight this in our work.

For example, when Alan Greenspan, in that famous '96 "irrational exuberance" speech, mentions
the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy, and I'm quoting him now: "It
chiefly concerns, at least in our view, this dualism of the psychological of the former and the physical
of the latter." Now, saying this, mental causality is highly controversial and complex in cognitive
science, but cognitive science is the area that really studies this. So, you also specifically refer to
Soros's reflexivity in that context, and as you already indicated just now, but also in your memo, you
equate prices almost to psychology. And finally, we've all experienced this dangerous - to the point
of existential - tail-wagging-the-dog dynamic surrounding Lehman's collapse. So my first question
is, if we agree that we will not gain much by identifying yet another behavioral bias, nor by running
yet another regression, what would you like to see investigated by cognitive scientists that could
potentially lead to more important insights, especially regarding our understanding of the interaction
between these two domains of the real and financial economies?

 HM: Well, the people at this symposium know much more than I do about how to get to the
 bottom of these things. But clearly there's so much grist for this mill. Now, exactly how you
 quantify mood, and so-called animal spirits and irrational exuberance, is beyond me. I always
 say, Patrick, and I think I said it in Mastering the Market Cycle, that if I could know just one
 thing about every security I was thinking about buying, it would be how much optimism is in the
 price.

 When you watch TV and you hear the newsreaders talking about what happened in the stock
 market today, you get the impression that prices are the result of fundamentals and changes in
 prices are the result of changes in fundamentals. And that is vastly inadequate. (By the way,
 they always say, "The market went up today because of X" or "The market went down today
 because of Y." I always say, "Where do they go to find that out, because I haven't found it
 yet?" I haven't found where you go to get an explanation of the market's behavior, even after
 the fact.) But it's not true that it's all about fundamentals. The price of an asset is based on
 fundamentals and how people view those fundamentals. And a change in an asset price is based
 on the change in fundamentals and the change in how people view those fundamentals. So, facts
 and attitudes. Any research that could capture changes in attitudes, I think is important.

 Now, what about quantifying these animal spirits? In one of the more jocular portions of my
 first book, The Most Important Thing, I include something I called "the poor man's guide to
 market assessment." I have a list of things in one column, and I have a list of things in the other
 column, and whichever list is more descriptive of current conditions tells you whether it's
 optimism or pessimism that's governing the market. There are things like, do deals get sold out
 or do they languish? Are hedge fund managers being welcomed on TV or not? Who does the
 crowd form around at cocktail parties? What is the media saying: "We're going to the moon" or
 "We're cratering forever"? I don't know how to quantify these things. But these are among the
 very important things that I listen to in order to figure out where we stand in the cycle. And I
 believe where we are in the cycle plays a very strong role in figuring out where we'll go next.
 (In fact, take the title of my second book, Mastering the Market Cycle. When I was thinking

 about writing it, it was called Listening to the Cycle. "Listening" in the sense of taking our
 signals from where we are in the cycle. "Listening" also in the sense of obeying. The publisher
 thought we'd sell more books if the title implied the book would help you master the market
 cycle.) But I, as a practical investor, try to figure out what's going on around me.

 Now let's go back. I didn't do what I should have, because I didn't answer Russell Napier's real
 question: can I name two episodes that showed this kind of thing in action? I was glad to have
 the questions in advance, because it allowed me to think about the two episodes I want to
 propose.

 In the spring of 2007, I wrote a memo called The Race to the Bottom. This was when the
 subprime mortgage mania was at its apex, I think, and when the logs had been stacked in the
 fireplace for the conflagration that became the Global Financial Crisis. It happens that I was
 driving around England in the fall of '06 - maybe November or December '06 - and I was
 reading the FT (I mean I wasn't driving and reading; I was being driven so I could read), and
 there was an article in the FT that said that, historically, the English banks had been willing to
 lend people three-and-a-half times their salary in a mortgage. But now, XYZ Bank announced
 that it was willing to lend four times your salary, and then ABC Bank said, "No, we'll lend
 five." And that bidding contest - to make loans by lowering credit standards - seemed to me to
 be a race to the bottom. And I wrote that markets are an auction place where the opportunity to
 make a loan, or the opportunity to buy a stock or a bond, goes to the person who's willing to pay
 the most for it. That is to say, get the least for his money, just like in an auction of a painting.
 And so, in this case, the bank that was willing to have the lowest credit standards and the
 weakest loans was likely to win the auction and make the loans: race to the bottom. And I said
 this is what happens when there's too much money in the hands of providers of capital and
 they're too eager to put it to work. Mood! And, of course, we all know the Global Financial
 Crisis ensued.

 Now fast forward from February '07 to October '08: Lehman Brothers goes bankrupt on
 September 15, 2008, and now, rather than being carefree, the pendulum has swung, and people
 are terrified. Rather than seeing risk as their friend, as in, "The more risk you take, the more
 money you make, because riskier assets have higher returns," now people say "Risk bearing is
 just another way to lose money. Get me out at any price."

 So the pendulum swung, and of course people's optimism collapsed, the S&P 500 collapsed, and
 the prices of debt collapsed. So I wrote a memo right around October the 10th of '08 - maybe
 that day was the all-time low for credit, I don't know exactly - that was called The Limits to
 Negativism, based on an experience I had. I needed to raise some money to delever a levered
 fund that we had that was in danger of melting down due to margin calls, and I went out to my
 clients. I got more money. We reduced the fund's debt from four times its equity to two times.
 Now we're again approaching the point where we can get a margin call. Now I need to delever
 it from two times to one time. I met with a client who said, "No, I don't want to do it anymore."
 And I said, "You gotta do it. These are senior loans, and the default rate on senior loans has
 been infinitesimal over time. There's potential for a levered return of 26% a year from what I
 consider incredibly safe instruments."

 This client - excuse me if I belabor this, but I think it's interesting - this client said to me,
 "What if there are defaults?" And I said, "Well, our historical default rate on high yield bonds -
 which are junior to these instruments - is 1% a year. So if you start with 26% and you take off

 1% for defaults, you still get 25%." So she said, "What if it's worse than that?" I said, "The
 high yield bond universe default rate has been 4% a year, so you're still getting 22% net." She
 says, "What if it's worse than that?" And I said, "The worst five years in our default experience
 is 71⁄2%, and if that happens, you're still getting 19%." She says, "What if it's worse than that?",
 and I said, "The worst year in history is 13%. If that recurs every year for the next eight years,
 you'll still make 13% a year." She says, "What if it's worse than that?" And I said, "Do you
 have any equities?" She said, "Yes, we have a lot of equities." I said, "If we get a default rate
 on high yield bonds of more than 13% a year every year into the future, what happens to your
 equities in that environment?"

 I describe myself as having run back to my office after that meeting to write that memo, The
 Limits to Negativism. What I wrote there was that it's very important when you're an investor to
 be a skeptic and not believe everything you hear. And most people think being a skeptic
 consists of dealing with excessive optimism by saying, "That's too good to be true." But when
 it's pessimism that's excessive, being a skeptic means saying, "That's too bad to be true." That
 particular investor couldn't imagine any scenario that couldn't be exceeded on the downside.
 So, in other words, for that person, there was no limit to negativism.

 And when I conclude that the other people in the market, the people setting the market prices,
 are excessively negative and excessively risk averse, then I - an inherently conservative person
 - and my partner, Bruce Karsh, who runs our distressed debt funds - also an inherently
 conservative person - we go crazy spending money when we conclude there's excessive
 pessimism, fear, and risk aversion incorporated in asset prices [meaning they're lower than they
 should be]. So it's not just the mechanical aspects that determine market prices - it's
 psychology. It's mass hysteria, which comes in waves from time to time, that leads to market
 cycles that prove excessive.

PS: Before I go to my next question, I'd like to come back to your point where you say it's hard to
quantify mood. But perhaps that's exactly the problem: that we're trying to capture it with analytical
tools like Excel and MATHLAB. Or it is when, for example, you talk about, we need to measure the
temperature of the market, and when we're perceptive, we can gauge it. And it seems to me almost
like when you're trying to assess a mood in a restaurant, it's a qualitative aspect. And some people
perhaps have this innate ability, whereas others would perhaps be helped with different
methodologies and different tools, and we can try to grasp mood better in that way, because,
nowadays, people talk about market sentiment and try to capture it by looking at the VIX or put/call
ratios or things like that, which I think you would disqualify as market mood. That's not market
mood.

 HM: Those things are indicators or symptomatic, but they don't all move in the same direction
 at the same time. Sometimes A and B will go up, and C won't. Sometimes A and C will go up,
 but B won't. So, clearly, they're not reliable indicators, and they also can't be dealt with in a
 mechanical sense. But I wrote in one of my memos - I think it was Risk Revisited Again in 2015
 - I said superior investors have a better sense for the shape of the probability distribution that
 will govern future stock price movements, and thus a better sense for whether the expected
 return justifies taking on the potential negative events that lurk in the left-hand tail. I think
 that's it, and there's nothing in there about measuring, Patrick, or anything mechanical.

 You know, I was locked up with my son for several months during the pandemic. He and his
 family moved in with us, so we had a lot of time for talking. He's an optimist. (He would say

 he's not an optimist - that he's a realist - but of course all optimists think they're realists, and all
 pessimists think they're realists.) Anyway, he has an optimistic bent. He's a tech investor, a
 venture capitalist; he runs a VC fund; he does a fabulous job at it, and we talked about these
 things at great length. He made a point, which I incorporated in a memo called Something of
 Value in January of '21 about our conversations - and that's the memo that has gotten the most
 positive reaction of all of them over 30-plus years. He made the point that, as he puts it, because
 information and understanding are so widespread, so ubiquitous, "readily available quantitative
 information with regard to the present" cannot be depended on to produce superior returns.

 This is the epitome of the efficient market hypothesis. If everybody has all the same "readily
 available quantitative information with regard to the present," then being a superior investor has
 to be a matter of going beyond that. You have to have something else. And if he's right in that
 description, then what are the things that can be the source of superior investing? It seems to me
 there are two:

 • Number one: A better comprehension, if that's the right word, of the future. Some people
 see the future better than others, and that could do the trick, because, remember, what he
 says doesn't suffice is readily available quantitative information about the present. By
 definition, there's no information about the future, but maybe some people can see the
 future better than others.

 • Or the other thing that could be a source of superior results is a superior ability to process
 qualitative information. Remember, what he described as not helpful is readily available
 quantitative information about the present. What about qualitative information?
 Qualitative information includes mood, and we've been talking about the market mood.
 And maybe some people have a better feeling than others for the collective psyche and for
 whether it's too depressed and therefore presenting great opportunities to buy or too
 enthusiastic and thus offering great opportunities to sell or short. [In addition to mood,
 qualitative information also includes things like the quality of management, the
 effectiveness of the company's product development capability, and the strength of its
 accounting.]

 The point is that a superior investor has to do at least one of those two things better, and maybe
 both. I think that that's where the superiority comes in.

 And, by the way, to take it one step further, we can ask, "How many people have a superior
 view of the future? And how many people have a superior understanding of the market mood
 [and other qualitative factors]?" And if the answer to both is "not so many," then that explains
 why active investing has been a flop for most people who've tried it.

PS: My next question goes in a somewhat different direction. Investing offers many dilemmas and
conundrums. And specifically, to assume that things will remain roughly the same, also known as
"history rhymes," may be just as dangerous as expecting change, also known as "it's different this
time." Which side of the debate are you generally on and why?

 HM: There's a quote widely attributed to Mark Twain: "History does not repeat, but it does
 rhyme." I'm a believer in that. When Twain says history doesn't repeat, what he's saying is

 that the causes of events vary, the consequences of events vary, the form they take varies. But
 there are things that do recur. For example:

 • Number one: Generally speaking in the markets, when things have been going well for a
 few years, people become less risk-averse. When they become less risk-averse, they do
 riskier things. When the economy eventually turns down, those things produce outsized
 losses.

 • Number two: When people are feeling good and things have been going well for a while,
 people use more leverage. And, eventually, they reach a level of leverage such that they
 can't survive in tough times, and they melt down when tough times arrive.

 • Number three: Because borrowing for the short term is cheaper than borrowing long, people
 tend to borrow short for long-term projects in order to maximize the delta. But if a bad day
 comes when you have to refinance your short-term debts because they're due and the
 market is closed, you can't, and you're out of business.

 These are themes that we see recur over time. Not exactly the same every time, and with
 different reasons from time to time. But I do think that themes - mostly relating to psychology
 - tend to rhyme, you know. The particulars of market mechanics, the use of different forms of
 fundraising, and different forms of securities - these change all the time: ETFs, algorithmic
 funds, index funds, senior loans, and high yield bonds. These things are innovative; they're the
 reflection of people's minds as applied to financial problems. But the tendencies of the human
 mind itself tend to rhyme over the years.

 By the way, the first time I ever came across the saying you mentioned - "It's different this
 time" - was October the 11th of 1987. There was an article in The New York Times entitled
 "Why This Market Cycle Isn't Different." It talked about the fact that people often say it's
 different this time and that this saying is generally employed to explain why historical norms
 don't apply anymore: norms of valuation and the rhymes that I was just talking about. Anise
 Wallace wrote that article - it made a big impression on me - and she said, "You know what?
 This time it's no different; these things will eventually lead to the same outcomes as they always
 have." [The assertion that things were different was being used at the time to justify the very
 high stock market valuations. As it happens, the article ran just eight days before "Black
 Monday," on which the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined by 22.6% in a single day.]

 Wallace mentioned that Sir John Templeton said, "About 20% of the time, things actually do
 change." I wrote another memo within the last two years in which I said that, given the ubiquity
 of technology and the high rate of innovation, I think things actually do change more than 20%
 of the time. So you shouldn't bet your life on the fact that the world doesn't change. But you
 also shouldn't bet your life on your ability to predict the change, and especially the timing.

PS: It was John Templeton who also said, "The most dangerous words in investment are 'it's
different this time.'"

 HM: Exactly, so I think you have to balance the two. Things like the psychological or
 behavioral themes I've mentioned - and by the way, this goes for the various biases, including
 confirmation bias - I think these things do repeat from year to year, decade to decade, cycle to

 cycle, however you want to define it. But there's also change, and a lot of that takes place in the
 mechanical world: changes in information processing, changes in technological products, and so
 forth.

PS: I'd like to talk more about the memo Investing Without People. You basically express your
worry about mechanical investing, specifically passive investing. I'll quote as follows: "When
everyone decides to refrain from performing the functions of analysis, price discovery and asset
allocation, the appropriateness of market prices can go out the window as a result of passive
investing, just as it does from a mindless boom or bust." Do you think mechanical investing could
have a negative impact on informational efficiency because it only uses market internals like market
cap, bid/ask, momentum, and, in a way, therefore distorts or ignores the transmission of information
coming from the real economy? And, as a consequence, if we look at a chain of discovery through
the economic system - starting with a scientist having an insight, and then an inventor having an
invention, and an entrepreneur making an innovation, eventually ending up in financial markets
valuing this stuff - when things become more and more mechanical through the growth of these
strategies - which include high frequency trading, trend-following, smart beta, which you mentioned,
and of course passive investing - we run the risk that the separation between Mr. Market and the
break?

 HM: You know, Patrick, I think the flaw in passive investing lies in the fact that you have to
 view passive investing - things like indexation, especially - as kind of a hitchhiker, a free-rider
 on the market. In other words, there are 1,000 people out here doing active investing and
 distilling all the information and thinking about the future of the company and thinking about the
 fairness of the price, and the result is a market price. And, as I said before, that price is the best
 everybody collectively can do in trying to value the company and its future. And then there are
 ten people over there who run index funds, and they just buy at the market prices because they
 think those prices are probably fair, or the best you can do, so why go to all the trouble and
 expense of doing fundamental analysis? [The managers of passive funds feel no need to
 independently think about company fundamentals or the fairness of price. They take the active
 investors' word for it.] So, that's why I say, "free-rider." The ten free-ride on the efforts of the

 But what happens if the number of people doing fundamental analysis - active investing -
 declines from 1,000 to 500 to 100 to 50 to 10? Now you have 1,000 people free-riding on the
 efforts of the ten. The potential for divergence between price and fair price increases, and free-
 riding is not as easy to do or as risk-free. I think the irony, as I said in that memo, Investing
 Without People, is that active investing is no good; passive investing works better, but only if
 people keep doing active investing.

 You mentioned conundrums. This is a conundrum: the less people invest actively, the greater
 scope there is for price to diverge from value. In theory, it becomes easier to find bargains and
 overpriced securities, and the return from active effort rises. So that's the irony.

 And, the other thing is, we have to bear in mind that, let's say everybody at this conference
 stipulated that over the next ten years, every dollar that went into the stock market would go into
 the S&P 500, perhaps through index funds or ETFs. Clearly, the prices of the S&P 500 stocks
 would rise, maybe more than they should, and everything else would languish. Given the
 fundamental realities, eventually the things outside the index would be so demonstrably cheap

 relative to the things inside the index that they have to begin to do better, at which point active
 investing outperforms and maybe a few people at the margin give up on passive. So it's kind of
 reflexive. I take reflexivity to mean that the actions of the participants change the formula for
 success, and that's what we could be talking about here.

PS: But if we come back to the chain of discovery, if this growing mechanization has an impact on
the transmission and allocation of capital at the core of where people innovate, then that clearly is
detrimental for society. To put it controversially, but acknowledging this risk, should passive
investing be charged for its free-riding and subsidize the extra costs of active investing?

 HM: The only way to do that, of course, would be to keep the prices of assets secret and charge
 people for admission to that room, but I don't think that's ever going to happen. In the memo
 Investing Without People, there are three sections. The first is passive and index, which is here
 now in a big way. The second is algorithmic and systematic, which is here in a small way. And
 the third is AI and machine learning, which is really - for investing - not here yet. We know
 what's happened with passive investing, because it has outperformed active [and now is
 employed to manage a substantial portion of equity investments]. There are systematic and
 algorithmic funds like Renaissance that have done a fabulous job and produced very, very high
 returns, based primarily on finding exceptions to historical patterns, I think. But then what
 happens when we get into artificial intelligence and machine learning? The questions I posed in
 the memo included "Can a computer read five business plans and figure out which of them will
 be the next Amazon?" and "Can a computer sit down with five CEOs and figure out which will
 be the next Steve Jobs?" Things like that.

 I believe not. I believe computers can't. First of all, I don't think the essence of the business
 plans or the CEOs can completely be converted into data and input into the computers. And I'm
 not an expert, but I wouldn't think computers can make those qualitative subjective judgments
 better than the best people. Now clearly, not every person can do those things either. Most
 people can't sit down with business plans and find Amazon, for example. A few can. They
 invested in it. Maybe it was Kleiner Perkins, maybe it was Sequoia, or maybe it was
 Benchmark. So not all the people can do it, but a few have been able to - we can argue about
 whether that was luck or skill. But I don't think computers will be able to do it, either. To me,
 the key conclusion of that memo was that computers can outperform most people, but not the
 best people. If so, there will still be room in active investing for the best. As my mother used to
 say, it's the exception that proves the rule.

PS: Howard, once again, thank you very much for sharing your insights with us, and we hope to
welcome you in person one day in Panmure House. There are many questions on my list that we
haven't touched on. I'd like to ask them perhaps one day, another time, but thank you.

 HM: Very good Patrick. Thank you for your good questions and for conducting this discussion,
 and I hope it's what you wanted for yourself and your colleagues.


Memo: I Beg to Differ.

_______________________________________________________________________________

I've written many times about having joined the investment industry in 1969, when the "Nifty Fifty"
stocks were in full flower. My first employer, First National City Bank, as well as many of the other
"money-center banks" (the leading investment managers of the day), were enthralled with these
companies, with their powerful business models and flawless prospects. Sentiment surrounding their
stocks was uniformly positive, and portfolio managers found great safety in numbers. For example, a
common refrain at the time was "you can't be fired for buying IBM," the era's quintessential growth
company.

I've also written extensively about the fate of these stocks. In 1973-74, the OPEC oil embargo and the
resultant recession took the S&P 500 Index down a total of 47%. And many of the Nifty Fifty, for which
it had been thought that "no price was too high," did far worse, falling from peak p/e ratios of 60-90 to
trough multiples in the single digits. Thus, their devotees lost almost all of their money in the stocks of
companies that "everyone knew" were great. This was my first chance to see what can happen to assets
that are on what I call "the pedestal of popularity."

In 1978, I was asked to move to the bank's bond department to start funds in convertible bonds and,
shortly thereafter, high yield bonds. Now I was investing in securities most fiduciaries considered
"uninvestable" and which practically no one knew about, cared about, or deemed desirable . . . and I was
making money steadily and safely. I quickly recognized that my strong performance resulted in
large part from precisely that fact: I was investing in securities that practically no one knew about,
cared about, or deemed desirable. This brought home the key money-making lesson of the Efficient
Market Hypothesis, which I had been introduced to at the University of Chicago Business School: If you
seek superior investment results, you have to invest in things that others haven't flocked to and caused to
be fully valued. In other words, you have to do something different.

The Essential Difference

In 2006, I wrote a memo called Dare to Be Great. It was mostly about having high aspirations, and it
included a rant against conformity and investment bureaucracy, as well as an assertion that the route to
superior returns by necessity runs through unconventionality. The element of that memo that people still
talk to me about is a simple two-by-two matrix:

 Conventional Unconventional
 Behavior Behavior
 Favorable Outcomes Average good results Above average results

 Unfavorable Outcomes Average bad results Below average results

Here's how I explained the situation:

 Of course, it's not easy and clear-cut, but I think it's the general situation. If your
 behavior and that of your managers is conventional, you're likely to get conventional
 results - either good or bad. Only if the behavior is unconventional is your performance
 likely to be unconventional . . . and only if the judgments are superior is your
 performance likely to be above average.

 The consensus opinion of market participants is baked into market prices. Thus, if
 investors lack insight that is superior to the average of the people who make up the
 consensus, they should expect average risk-adjusted performance.

Many years have passed since I wrote that memo, and the investing world has gotten a lot more
sophisticated, but the message conveyed by the matrix and the accompanying explanation remains
unchanged. Talk about simple - in the memo, I reduced the issue to a single sentence: "This just in:
You can't take the same actions as everyone else and expect to outperform."

The best way to understand this idea is by thinking through a highly logical and almost mathematical
process (greatly simplified, as usual, for illustrative purposes):

 • A certain (but unascertainable) number of dollars will be made over any given period by all
 investors collectively in an individual stock, a given market, or all markets taken together. That
 amount will be a function of (a) how companies or assets fare in fundamental terms (e.g., how
 their profits grow or decline) and (b) how people feel about those fundamentals and treat asset
 prices.
 • On average, all investors will do average.
 • If you're happy doing average, you can simply invest in a broad swath of the assets in question,
 buying some of each in proportion to its representation in the relevant universe or index. By
 engaging in average behavior in this way, you're guaranteed average performance. (Obviously,
 this is the idea behind index funds.)
 • If you want to be above average, you have to depart from consensus behavior. You have to
 overweight some securities, asset classes, or markets and underweight others. In other words,
 you have to do something different.
 • The challenge lies in the fact that (a) market prices are the result of everyone's collective thinking
 and (b) it's hard for any individual to consistently figure out when the consensus is wrong and an
 asset is priced too high or too low.
 • Nevertheless, "active investors" place active bets in an effort to be above average.
 o Investor A decides stocks as a whole are too cheap, and he sells bonds in order to
 overweight stocks. Investor B thinks stocks are too expensive, so she moves to an
 underweighting by selling some of her stocks to Investor A and putting the proceeds into
 bonds.
 o Investor X decides a certain stock is too cheap and overweights it, buying from investor
 Y, who thinks it's too expensive and therefore wants to underweight it.
 • It's essential to note that in each of the above cases, one investor is right and the other is
 wrong. Now go back to the first bullet point above: Since the total dollars earned by all investors
 collectively are fixed in amount, all active bets, taken together, constitute a zero-sum game (or
 negative-sum after commissions and other costs). The investor who's right earns an above
 average return, and by definition the one who's wrong earns a below average return.
 • Thus, every active bet placed in the pursuit of above average returns carries with it the risk
 of below average returns. There's no way to make an active bet such that you'll win if it works

 but not lose if it doesn't. Financial innovations are often described as offering some version of
 this impossible bargain, but they invariably fail to live up to the hype.
 • The bottom line of the above is simple: You can't hope to earn above average returns if you
 don't place active bets, but if your active bets are wrong, your return will be below average.

Investing strikes me as being very much like golf, where playing conditions and the performance of
competitors can change from day to day, as can the placement of the holes. On some days, one approach
to the course is appropriate, but on other days, different tactics are called for. To win, you have to either
do a better job than others of selecting your approach or executing on it, or both.

The same is true for investors. It's simple: If you hope to distinguish yourself in terms of
performance, you have to depart from the pack. But, having departed, the difference will only be
positive if your choice of strategies and tactics is correct and/or you're able to execute better.

Second-Level Thinking

In 2009, when Columbia Business School Publishing was considering whether to publish my book The
Most Important Thing, they asked to see a sample chapter. As has often been my experience, I sat down
and described a concept I hadn't previously written about or named. That description became the book's
first chapter, addressing one of its most important topics: second-level thinking. It's certainly the concept
from the book that people ask me about most often.

The idea of second-level thinking builds on what I wrote in Dare to Be Great. First, I repeated my view
that success in investing means doing better than others. All active investors (and certainly money
managers hoping to earn a living) are driven by the pursuit of superior returns.

 But that universality also makes beating the market a difficult task. Millions of people
 are competing for each dollar of investment gain. Who'll get it? The person who's a step
 ahead. In some pursuits, getting up to the front of the pack means more schooling, more
 time in the gym or the library, better nutrition, more perspiration, greater stamina or
 better equipment. But in investing, where these things count for less, it calls for more
 perceptive thinking . . . at what I call the second level.

The basic idea behind second-level thinking is easily summarized: In order to outperform, your
thinking has to be different and better.

 Remember, your goal in investing isn't to earn average returns; you want to do better
 than average. Thus, your thinking has to be better than that of others - both more
 powerful and at a higher level. Since other investors may be smart, well informed and
 highly computerized, you must find an edge they don't have. You must think of
 something they haven't thought of, see things they miss, or bring insight they don't
 possess. You have to react differently and behave differently. In short, being right may
 be a necessary condition for investment success, but it won't be sufficient. You have
 to be more right than others . . . which by definition means your thinking has to be
 different.

Having made the case, I went on to distinguish second-level thinkers from those who operate at the first
level:

 First-level thinking is simplistic and superficial, and just about everyone can do it (a bad
 sign for anything involving an attempt at superiority). All the first-level thinker needs is
 an opinion about the future, as in "The outlook for the company is favorable, meaning the
 stock will go up."

 Second-level thinking is deep, complex, and convoluted. The second-level thinker takes
 a great many things into account:

 • What is the range of likely future outcomes?
 • What outcome do I think will occur?
 • What's the probability I'm right?
 • What does the consensus think?
 • How does my expectation differ from the consensus?
 • How does the current price for the asset comport with the consensus view of the
 future, and with mine?
 • Is the consensus psychology that's incorporated in the price too bullish or bearish?
 • What will happen to the asset's price if the consensus turns out to be right, and
 what if I'm right?

 The difference in workload between first-level and second-level thinking is clearly
 massive, and the number of people capable of the latter is tiny compared to the number
 capable of the former.

 First-level thinkers look for simple formulas and easy answers. Second-level
 thinkers know that success in investing is the antithesis of simple.

Speaking about difficulty reminds me of an important idea that arose in my discussions with my son
Andrew during the pandemic (described in the memo Something of Value, published in January 2021).
In the memo's extensive discussion of how efficient most markets have become in recent decades,
Andrew makes a terrific point: "Readily available quantitative information with regard to the
present cannot be the source of superior performance." After all, everyone has access to this type
of information - with regard to public U.S. securities, that's the whole point of the SEC's Reg FD (for fair
disclosure) - and nowadays all investors should know how to manipulate data and run screens.

So, then, how can investors who are intent on outperforming hope to reach their goal? As Andrew and I
said on a podcast where we discussed Something of Value, they have to go beyond readily available
quantitative information with regard to the present. Instead, their superiority has to come from an ability

 • better understand the significance of the published numbers,
 • better assess the qualitative aspects of the company, and/or
 • better divine the future.

Obviously, none of these things can be determined with certainty, measured empirically, or processed
using surefire formulas. Unlike present-day quantitative information, there's no source you can turn to
for easy answers. They all come down to judgment or insight. Second-level thinkers who have better

judgment are likely to achieve superior returns, and those who are less insightful are likely to generate
inferior performance.

This all leads me back to something Charlie Munger told me around the time The Most Important Thing
was published: "It's not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid." Anyone who thinks
there's a formula for investing that guarantees success (and that they can possess it) clearly doesn't
understand the complex, dynamic, and competitive nature of the investing process. The prize for
superior investing can amount to a lot of money. In the highly competitive investment arena, it simply
can't be easy to be the one who pockets the extra dollars.

Contrarianism

There's a concept in the investing world that's closely related to being different: contrarianism. "The
investment herd" refers to the masses of people (or institutions) that drive security prices one way or the
other. It's their actions that take asset prices to bull market highs and sometimes bubbles and, in the other
direction, to bear market territory and occasional crashes. At these extremes, which are invariably
overdone, it's essential to act in a contrary fashion.

Joining in the swings described above causes people to own or buy assets at high prices and to sell or fail
to buy at low prices. For this reason, it can be important to part company with the herd and behave in a
way that's contrary to the actions of most others.

Contrarianism received its own chapter in The Most Important Thing. Here's how I set forth the logic:

 • Markets swing dramatically, from bullish to bearish, and from overpriced to
 underpriced.
 • Their movements are driven by the actions of "the crowd," "the herd," and "most
 people." Bull markets occur because more people want to buy than sell, or the
 buyers are more highly motivated than the sellers. The market rises as people switch
 from being sellers to being buyers, and as buyers become even more motivated and
 the sellers less so. (If buyers didn't predominate, the market wouldn't be rising.)
 • Market extremes represent inflection points. These occur when bullishness or
 bearishness reaches a maximum. Figuratively speaking, a top occurs when the last
 person who will become a buyer does so. Since every buyer has joined the bullish
 herd by the time the top is reached, bullishness can go no further, and the market is
 as high as it can go. Buying or holding is dangerous.
 • Since there's no one left to turn bullish, the market stops going up. And if the next
 day one person switches from buyer to seller, it will start to go down.
 • So at the extremes, which are created by what "most people" believe, most
 people are wrong.
 • Therefore, the key to investment success has to lie in doing the opposite: in
 diverging from the crowd. Those who recognize the errors that others make can
 profit enormously from contrarianism.

To sum up, if the extreme highs and lows are excessive and the result of the concerted, mistaken actions
of most investors, then it's essential to leave the crowd and be a contrarian.

In his 2000 book, Pioneering Portfolio Management, David Swensen, the former chief investment officer
of Yale University, explained why investing institutions are vulnerable to conformity with current

consensus belief and why they should instead embrace contrarianism. (For more on Swensen's approach
to investing, see "A Case in Point" below.) He also stressed the importance of building infrastructure that
enables contrarianism to be employed successfully:

 Unless institutions maintain contrarian positions through difficult times, the resulting
 damage imposes severe financial and reputational costs on the institution.

 Casually researched, consensus-oriented investment positions provide little prospect for
 producing superior results in the intensely competitive investment management world.

 Unfortunately, overcoming the tendency to follow the crowd, while necessary, proves
 insufficient to guarantee investment success . . . While courage to take a different path
 enhances chances for success, investors face likely failure unless a thoughtful set of
 investment principles undergirds the courage.

Before I leave the subject of contrarianism, I want to make something else very clear. First-level thinkers
- to the extent they're interested in the concept of contrarianism - might believe contrarianism means
doing the opposite of what most people are doing, so selling when the market rises and buying when it
falls. But this overly simplistic definition of contrarianism is unlikely to be of much help to investors.
Instead, the understanding of contrarianism itself has to take place at a second level.

In The Most Important Thing Illuminated, an annotated edition of my book, four professional investors
and academics provided commentary on what I had written. My good friend Joel Greenblatt, an
exceptional equity investor, provided a very apt observation regarding knee-jerk contrarianism: ". . . just
because no one else will jump in front of a Mack truck barreling down the highway doesn't mean that you
should." In other words, the mass of investors aren't wrong all the time, or wrong so dependably that it's
always right to do the opposite of what they do. Rather, to be an effective contrarian, you have to figure
out:

 • what the herd is doing;
 • why it's doing it;
 • what's wrong, if anything, with what it's doing; and
 • what you should do about it.

Like the second-level thought process laid out in bullet points on page four, intelligent contrarianism is
deep and complex. It amounts to much more than simply doing the opposite of the crowd. Nevertheless,
good investment decisions made at the best opportunities - at the most overdone market extremes -
invariably include an element of contrarian thinking.

The Decision to Risk Being Wrong

There are only so many topics I find worth writing about, and since I know I'll never know all there is to
know about them, I return to some from time to time and add to what I've written previously. Thus, in
2014, I followed up on 2006's Dare to Be Great with a memo creatively titled Dare to Be Great II. To
begin, I repeated my insistence on the importance of being different:

 If your portfolio looks like everyone else's, you may do well, or you may do poorly, but
 you can't do different. And being different is absolutely essential if you want a chance at
 being superior. . . .

I followed that with a discussion of the challenges associated with being different:

 Most great investments begin in discomfort. The things most people feel good about -
 investments where the underlying premise is widely accepted, the recent performance has
 been positive, and the outlook is rosy - are unlikely to be available at bargain prices.
 Rather, bargains are usually found among things that are controversial, that people are
 pessimistic about, and that have been performing badly of late.

But then, perhaps most importantly, I took the idea a step further, moving from daring to be
different to its natural corollary: daring to be wrong. Most investment books are about how to be
right, not the possibility of being wrong. And yet, the would-be active investor must understand that
every attempt at success by necessity carries with it the chance for failure. The two are absolutely
inseparable, as I described at the top of page three.

In a market that is even moderately efficient, everything you do to depart from the consensus in
pursuit of above average returns has the potential to result in below average returns if your
departure turns out to be a mistake. Overweighting something versus underweighting it; concentrating
versus diversifying; holding versus selling; hedging versus not hedging - these are all double-edged
swords. You gain when you make the right choice and lose when you're wrong.

One of my favorite sayings came from a pit boss at a Las Vegas casino: "The more you bet, the more you
win when you win." Absolutely inarguable. But the pit boss conveniently omitted the converse: "The
more you bet, the more you lose when you lose." Clearly, those two ideas go together.

In a presentation I occasionally make to institutional clients, I employ PowerPoint animation to
graphically portray the essence of this situation:

 • A bubble drops down, containing the words "Try to be right." That's what active investing is all
 about. But then a few more words show up in the bubble: "Run the risk of being wrong." The
 bottom line is that you simply can't do the former without also doing the latter. They're
 inextricably intertwined.
 • Then another bubble drops down, with the label "Can't lose." There are can't-lose strategies in
 investing. If you buy T-bills, you can't have a negative return. If you invest in an index fund,
 you can't underperform the index. But then two more words appear in the second bubble: "Can't
 win." People who use can't-lose strategies by necessity surrender the possibility of winning. T-
 bill investors can't earn more than the lowest of yields. Index fund investors can't outperform.
 • And that brings me to the assignment I imagine receiving from unenlightened clients: "Just apply
 the first set of words from each bubble: Try to outperform while employing can't-lose strategies."
 But that combination happens to be unavailable.

The above shows that active investing carries a cost that goes beyond commissions and management fees:
heightened risk of inferior performance. Thus, every investor has to make a conscious decision about
which course to follow. Pursue superior returns at the risk of coming in behind the pack, or hug
the consensus position and ensure average performance. It should be clear that you can't hope to earn
superior returns if you're unwilling to bear the risk of sub-par results.

And that brings me to my favorite fortune cookie, which I received with dessert 40-50 years ago. The
message inside was simple: The cautious seldom err or write great poetry. In my college classes in
Japanese studies, I learned about the koan, which Oxford Languages defines as "a paradoxical anecdote
or riddle, used in Zen Buddhism to demonstrate the inadequacy of logical reasoning and to provoke

enlightenment." I think of my fortune that way because it raises a question I find paradoxical and capable
of leading to enlightenment.

But what does the fortune mean? That you should be cautious, because cautious people seldom make
mistakes? Or that you shouldn't be cautious, because cautious people rarely accomplish great things?

The fortune can be read both ways, and both conclusions seem reasonable. Thus the key question is,
"Which meaning is right for you?" As an investor, do you like the idea of avoiding error, or would you
rather try for superiority? Which path is more likely to lead to success as you define it, and which is more
feasible for you? You can follow either path, but clearly not both simultaneously.

Thus, investors have to answer what should be a very basic question: Will you (a) strive to be above
average, which costs money, is far from sure to work, and can result in your being below average, or (b)
accept average performance - which helps you reduce those costs but also means you'll have to look on
with envy as winners report mouth-watering successes. Here's how I put it in Dare to Be Great II:

 How much emphasis should be put on diversifying, avoiding risk, and ensuring against
 below-pack performance, and how much on sacrificing these things in the hope of doing
 better?

And here's how I described some of the considerations:

 Unconventional behavior is the only road to superior investment results, but it isn't
 for everyone. In addition to superior skill, successful investing requires the ability
 to look wrong for a while and survive some mistakes. Thus each person has to assess
 whether he's temperamentally equipped to do these things and whether his circumstances
 - in terms of employers, clients and the impact of other people's opinions - will allow it
 . . . when the chips are down and the early going makes him look wrong, as it invariably
 will.

You can't have it both ways. And as in so many aspects of investing, there's no right or wrong, only
right or wrong for you.

A Case in Point

The aforementioned David Swensen ran Yale University's endowment from 1985 until his passing in
2021, an unusual 36-year tenure. He was a true pioneer, developing what has come to be called "the Yale
Model" or "the Endowment Model." He radically reduced Yale's holdings of public stocks and bonds,
and invested heavily in innovative, illiquid strategies such as hedge funds, venture capital, and private
equity at a time when almost no other institutions were doing so. He identified managers in those fields
who went on to generate superior results, several of whom earned investment fame. Yale's resulting
performance beat almost all other endowments by miles. In addition, Swensen sent out into the
endowment community a number of disciples who produced enviable performance for other institutions.
Many endowments emulated Yale's approach, especially beginning around 2003-04, after these
institutions had been punished by the bursting of the tech/Internet bubble. But few if any duplicated
Yale's success. They did the same things, but not nearly as early or as well.

To sum up all the above, I'd say Swensen dared to be different. He did things others didn't do. He did
these things long before most others picked up the thread. He did them to a degree that others didn't
approach. And he did them with exceptional skill. What a great formula for outperformance.

In Pioneering Portfolio Management, Swensen provided a description of the challenge at the core of
investing - especially institutional investing. It's one of the best paragraphs I've ever read and includes a
two-word phrase (which I've bolded for emphasis) that for me reads like sheer investment poetry. I've
borrowed it countless times:

 . . . Active management strategies demand uninstitutional behavior from institutions,
 creating a paradox that few can unravel. Establishing and maintaining an unconventional
 investment profile requires acceptance of uncomfortably idiosyncratic portfolios, which
 frequently appear downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional wisdom.

As with many great quotes, this one from Swensen says a great deal in just a few words. Let's parse its
meaning:

Idiosyncratic - When all investors love something, it's likely their buying will render it highly priced.
When they hate it, their selling will probably cause it to become cheap. Thus, it's preferable to buy things
most people hate and sell things most people love. Such behavior is by definition highly idiosyncratic
(i.e., "eccentric," "quirky," or "peculiar").

Uncomfortable - The mass of investors take the positions they take for reasons they find convincing.
We witness the same developments they do and are impacted by the same news. Yet, we realize that if
we want to be above average, our reaction to those inputs - and thus our behavior - should in many
instances be different from that of others. Regardless of the reasons, if millions of investors are doing A,
it may be quite uncomfortable to do B.

And if we do bring ourselves to do B, our action is unlikely to prove correct right away. After we've sold
a market darling because we think it's overvalued, its price probably won't start to drop the next day.
Most of the time, the hot asset you've sold will keep rising for a while, and sometimes a good while. As
John Maynard Keynes said, "Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent." And as
the old adage goes, "Being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong." These two
ideas are closely related to another great Keynes quote: "Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for
reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally." Departing from the mainstream can
be embarrassing and painful.

Uninstitutional behavior from institutions - We all know what Swensen meant by the word
"institutions": bureaucratic, hidebound, conservative, conventional, risk-averse, and ruled by consensus;
in short, unlikely mavericks. In such settings, the cost of being different and wrong can be viewed as
highly unacceptable relative to the potential benefit from being different and right. For the people
involved, passing up profitable investments (errors of omission) poses far less risk than making
investments that produce losses (errors of commission). Thus, investing entities that behave
"institutionally" are, by their nature, highly unlikely to engage in idiosyncratic behavior.

Early in his time at Yale, Swensen chose to:

 • minimize holdings of public stocks;
 • vastly overweight strategies falling under the heading "alternative investments" (although he
 started to do so well before that label was created);
 • in so doing, commit a substantial portion of Yale's endowment to illiquid investments for which
 there was no market; and
 • hire managers without lengthy track records on the basis of what he perceived to be their
 investment acumen.

To use his words, these actions probably appeared "downright imprudent in the eyes of conventional
wisdom." Swensen's behavior was certainly idiosyncratic and uninstitutional, but he understood that the
only way to outperform was to risk being wrong, and he accepted that risk with great results.

One Way to Diverge from the Pack

To conclude, I want to describe a recent occurrence. In mid-June, we held the London edition of
Oaktree's biannual conference, which followed on the heels of the Los Angeles version. My assigned
topic at both conferences was the market environment. I faced a dilemma while preparing for the London
conference, because so much had changed between the two events: On May 19, the S&P 500 was at
roughly 3,900, but by June 21 it was at approximately 3,750, down almost 4% in roughly a month. Here
was my issue: Should I update my slides, which had become somewhat dated, or reuse the LA slides to
deliver a consistent message to both audiences?

I decided to use the LA slides as the jumping-off point for a discussion of how much things had changed
in that short period. The key segment of my London presentation consisted of a stream-of-consciousness
discussion of the concerns of the day. I told the attendees that I pay close attention to the questions
people ask most often at any given point in time, as the questions tell me what's on people's minds. And
the questions I'm asked these days overwhelmingly surround:

 • the outlook for inflation,
 • the extent to which the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to bring it under control, and
 • whether doing so will produce a soft landing or a recession (and if the latter, how bad).

Afterwards, I wasn't completely happy with my remarks, so I rethought them over lunch. And when it
was time to resume the program, I went up on stage for another two minutes. Here's what I said:

All the discussion surrounding inflation, rates, and recession falls under the same heading: the short term.
And yet:

 • We can't know much about the short-term future (or, I should say, we can't dependably know
 more than the consensus).
 • If we have an opinion about the short term, we can't (or shouldn't) have much confidence in it.
 • If we reach a conclusion, there's not much we can do about it - most investors can't and won't
 meaningfully revamp their portfolios based on such opinions.
 • We really shouldn't care about the short term - after all, we're investors, not traders.

I think it's the last point that matters most. The question is whether you agree or not.

For example, when asked whether we're heading toward a recession, my usual answer is that whenever
we're not in a recession, we're heading toward one. The question is when. I believe we'll always have
cycles, which means recessions and recoveries will always lie ahead. Does the fact that there's a
recession ahead mean we should reduce our investments or alter our portfolio allocation? I don't
think so. Since 1920, there have been 17 recessions as well as one Great Depression, a World War and
several smaller wars, multiple periods of worry about global cataclysm, and now a pandemic. And
yet, as I mentioned in my January memo, Selling Out, the S&P 500 has returned about 101⁄2% a year on
average over that century-plus. Would investors have improved their performance by getting in and out of
the market to avoid those problem spots . . . or would doing so have diminished it? Ever since I
quoted Bill Miller in that memo, I've been impressed by his formulation that "it's time, not timing" that
leads to real

wealth accumulation. Thus, most investors would be better off ignoring short-term considerations if they
want to enjoy the benefits of long-term compounding.

Two of the six tenets of Oaktree's investment philosophy say (a) we don't base our investment decisions
on macro forecasts and (b) we're not market timers. I told the London audience our main goal is to
buy debt or make loans that will be repaid and to buy interests in companies that will do well and
make money. None of that has anything to do with the short term.

From time to time, when we consider it warranted, we do vary our balance between aggressiveness and
defensiveness, primarily by altering the size of our closed-end funds, the pace at which we invest, and the
level of risk we'll accept. But we do these things on the basis of current market conditions, not
expectations regarding future events.

Everyone at Oaktree has opinions on the short-run phenomena mentioned above. We just don't bet
heavily that they're right. During our recent meetings with clients in London, Bruce Karsh and I spent a
lot of time discussing the significance of the short-term concerns. Here's how he followed up in a note to
me:

 . . . Will things be as bad or worse or better than expected? Unknowable . . . and equally
 unknowable how much is priced in, i.e. what the market is truly expecting. One would
 think a recession is priced in, but many analysts say that's not the case. This stuff is

Bruce's comment highlights another weakness of having a short-term focus. Even if we think we know
what's in store in terms of things like inflation, recessions, and interest rates, there's absolutely no way to
know how market prices comport with those expectations. This is more significant than most people
realize. If you've developed opinions regarding the issues of the day, or have access to those of pundits
you respect, take a look at any asset and ask yourself whether it's priced rich, cheap, or fair in light of
those views. That's what matters when you're pursuing investments that are reasonably priced.

The possibility - or even the fact - that a negative event lies ahead isn't in itself a reason to reduce
risk; investors should only do so if the event lies ahead and it isn't appropriately reflected in asset
prices. But, as Bruce says, there's usually no way to know.

At the beginning of my career, we thought in terms of investing in a stock for five or six years; something
held for less than a year was considered a short-term trade. One of the biggest changes I've witnessed
since then is the incredible shortening of time horizons. Money managers know their returns in real time,
and many clients are fixated on how their managers did in the most recent quarter.

No strategy - and no level of brilliance - will make every quarter or every year a successful one.
Strategies become more or less effective as the environment changes and their popularity waxes and
wanes. In fact, highly disciplined managers who hold most rigorously to a given approach will tend to
report the worst performance when that approach goes out of favor. Regardless of the appropriateness of
a strategy and the quality of investment decisions, every portfolio and every manager will experience
good and bad quarters and years that have no lasting impact and say nothing about the manager's ability.
Often this poor performance will be due to unforeseen and unforeseeable developments.

Thus, what does it mean that someone or something has performed poorly for a while? No one should
fire managers or change strategies based on short-term results. Rather than taking capital away from
underperformers, clients should consider increasing their allocations in the spirit of contrarianism (but

few do). I find it incredibly simple: If you wait at a bus stop long enough, you're guaranteed to
catch a bus, but if you run from bus stop to bus stop, you may never catch a bus.

I believe most investors have their eye on the wrong ball. One quarter's or one year's performance is
meaningless at best and a harmful distraction at worst. But most investment committees still spend the
first hour of every meeting discussing returns in the most recent quarter and the year to date. If everyone
else is focusing on something that doesn't matter and ignoring the thing that does, investors can
profitably diverge from the pack by blocking out short-term concerns and maintaining a laser focus
on long-term capital deployment.

A final quote from Pioneering Portfolio Management does a great job of summing up how institutions
can pursue the superior performance most want. (Its concepts are also relevant to individuals):

 Appropriate investment procedures contribute significantly to investment success,
 allowing investors to pursue profitable long-term contrarian investment positions. By
 reducing pressures to produce in the short run, liberated managers gain the freedom to
 create portfolios positioned to take advantage of opportunities created by short-term
 players. By encouraging managers to make potentially embarrassing out-of-favor
 investments, fiduciaries increase the likelihood of investment success.

Oaktree is probably in the extreme minority in its relative indifference to macro projections, especially
regarding the short term. Most investors fuss over expectations regarding short-term phenomena, but I
wonder whether they actually do much about their concerns, and whether it helps.

Many investors - and especially institutions such as pension funds, endowments, insurance
companies, and sovereign wealth funds, all of which are relatively insulated from the risk of sudden
withdrawals - have the luxury of being able to focus exclusively on the long term . . . if they will
take advantage of it. Thus, my suggestion to you is to depart from the investment crowd, with its
unhelpful preoccupation with the short term, and to instead join us in focusing on the things that really
matter.


Memo: The Illusion of Knowledge.

I've been expressing my disregard for forecasts for almost as long as I've been writing my memos,
starting with The Value of Predictions, or Where'd All This Rain Come From in February 1993. Over
the years since then, I've explained at length why I'm not interested in forecasts - a few of my favorite
quotes echoing my disdain head the sections below - but I've never devoted a memo to explaining why
making helpful macro forecasts is so difficult. So here it is.

Food for Thought

 There are two kinds of forecasters: those who don't know, and those who don't know
 they don't know.

 - John Kenneth Galbraith

Shortly after putting the finishing touches on I Beg to Differ in July, I attended a lunch with a number
of experienced investors, plus a few people from outside the investment industry. It wasn't organized
as a social occasion but rather an opportunity for those present to exchange views regarding the
investment environment.

At one point, the host posed a series of questions: What's your expectation regarding inflation? Will
there be a recession, and if so, how bad? How will the war in Ukraine end? What do you think is going
to happen in Taiwan? What's likely to be the impact of the 2022 and '24 U.S. elections? I listened as a
variety of opinions were expressed.

Regular readers of my memos can imagine what went through my mind: "Not one person in this room is
an expert on foreign affairs or politics. No one present has particular knowledge of these topics, and
certainly not more than the average intelligent person who read this morning's news." None of the
thoughts expressed, even on economic matters, seemed much more persuasive than the others, and I was
absolutely convinced that none were capable of improving investment results. And that's the point.

It was that lunch that started me thinking about writing yet another memo on the futility of macro
forecasting. Soon thereafter a few additional inputs arrived - a book, a piece in Bloomberg Opinion, and
a newspaper article - all of which supported my thesis (or perhaps played to my "confirmation bias" -
i.e., the tendency to embrace and interpret new information in a manner that confirms one's preexisting
views). Together, the lunch and these items inspired this memo's theme: the reasons why forecasts are
rarely helpful.

In order to produce something useful - be it in manufacturing, academia, or even the arts - you must have
a reliable process capable of converting the required inputs into the desired output. The problem, in
short, is that I don't think there can be a process capable of consistently turning the large number of
variables associated with economies and financial markets (the inputs) into a useful macro forecast (the
output).

The Machine

 The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.

 - Daniel J. Boorstin

In my first decade or so working at First National City Bank, a word was in vogue that I haven't heard in
a long time: econometrics. This is the practice of looking for relationships within economic data that can
lead to valid forecasts. Or, to simplify, I'd say econometrics is concerned with building a mathematical
model of an economy. Econometricians were heard from a great deal in the 1970s, but I don't believe
they are any longer. I take that to mean their models didn't work.

Forecasters have no choice but to base their judgments on models, be they complex or informal,
mathematical or intuitive. Models, by definition, consist of assumptions: "If A happens, then B will
happen." In other words, relationships and responses. But for us to willingly employ a model's output,
we have to believe the model is reliable. When I think about modeling an economy, my first reaction is to
think about how incredibly complicated it is.

The U.S., for example, has a population of around 330 million. All but the very youngest and perhaps the
very oldest are participants in the economy. Thus, there are hundreds of millions of consumers, plus
millions of workers, producers, and intermediaries (many people fall into more than one category). To
predict the path of the economy, you have to forecast the behavior of these people - if not for every
participant, then at least for group aggregates.

A real simulation of the U.S. economy would have to deal with billions of interactions or nodes, including
interactions with suppliers, customers, and other market participants around the globe. Is it possible to do
this? Is it possible, for example, to predict how consumers will behave (a) if they receive an additional
dollar of income (what will be the "marginal propensity to consume"?); (b) if energy prices rise,
squeezing other household budget categories; (c) if the price for one good rises relative to others (will
there be a "substitution effect"?); or (d) if the geopolitical arena is roiled by events continents away?

Clearly, this level of complexity necessitates the frequent use of simplifying assumptions. For example, it
would make modeling easier to be able to assume that consumers won't buy B in place of A if B isn't
either better or cheaper (or both). And it would help to assume that producers won't price X below Y if it
doesn't cost less to produce X than Y. But what if consumers are attracted to the prestige of B despite (or
even because of) its higher price? And what if X has been developed by an entrepreneur who's willing to
lose money for a few years to gain market share? Is it possible for a model to anticipate the consumer's
decision to pay up and the entrepreneur's decision to make less (or even lose) money?

Further, a model will have to predict how each group of participants in the economy will behave in a
variety of environments. But the vagaries are manifold. For example, consumers may behave one way at
one moment and a different way at another similar moment. Given the large number of variables
involved, it seems impossible that two "similar" moments will play out exactly the same way, and thus
that we'll witness the same behavior on the part of participants in the economy. Among other things,
participants' behavior will be influenced by their psychology (or should I say their emotions?), and their
psychology can be affected by qualitative, non-economic developments. How can those be modeled?

How can a model of an economy be comprehensive enough to deal with things that haven't been seen
before, or haven't been seen in modern times (meaning under comparable circumstances)? This is yet
another example of why a model simply can't replicate something as complex as an economy.

Of course, a prime example of this is the Covid-19 pandemic. It caused much of the world's economy to
be shut down, turned consumer behavior on its head, and inspired massive government largesse. What
aspect of a pre-existing model would have enabled it to anticipate the pandemic's impact? Yes, we had a
pandemic in 1918, but the circumstances were so different (no iPhones, Zoom calls, etc. ad infinitum) as
to render economic events during that time of little or no relevance to 2020.

In addition to the matter of complexity and the difficulty of capturing psychological fluctuations and
dynamic processes, think about the limitations that bear on an attempt to predict something that can't be
expected to remain unchanged. Shortly after starting on this memo, I received my regular weekly edition
of Morgan Housel's always-brilliant newsletter. One of the articles described a number of observations
from other arenas that have relevance to our world of economics and investing. Here are two, borrowed
from the field of statistics, that I think are pertinent to the discussion of economic models and forecasts
("Little Ways the World Works," Morgan Housel, Collaborative Fund, July 20, 2022):

 Stationarity: An assumption that the past is a statistical guide to the future, based on the
 idea that the big forces that impact a system don't change over time. If you want to know
 how tall to build a levee, look at the last 100 years of flood data and assume the next 100
 years will be the same. Stationarity is a wonderful, science-based concept that works
 right up until the moment it doesn't. It's a major driver of what matters in economics and
 politics. [But in our world,] "Things that have never happened before happen all the
 time," says Stanford professor Scott Sagan.

 Cromwell's rule: Never say something cannot occur . . . . If something has a one-in-a-
 billion chance of being true, and you interact with billions of things during your lifetime,
 you are nearly assured to experience some astounding surprises, and should always leave
 open the possibility of the unthinkable coming true.

Stationarity might be fairly assumed in the realm of the physical sciences. For example, thanks to the law
of universal gravitation, under given atmospheric conditions, the speed at which an object falls can
always be counted on to accelerate at the same rate. It always has, and it always will. But few processes
can be counted on to be stationary in our world, especially given the role played by psychology, emotion,
and human behavior, and their propensity to vary over time.

Take, for example, the relationship between unemployment and inflation. For roughly the last 60 years,
economists relied on the Phillips curve, which holds that wage inflation will rise as the unemployment
rate declines, because when there are fewer idle workers on the sidelines, employees gain bargaining
power and can successfully negotiate for higher wages. It was also believed for decades that an
unemployment rate around 5.5% indicated "full employment." But unemployment fell below 5.5% in
March 2015 (and reached a 50-year low of 3.5% in September 2019), yet there was no significant
increase in inflation (in wages or otherwise) until 2021. So the Phillips curve described an important
relationship that was built into economic models for decades but, seemingly, didn't apply over much of
the last decade.

Cromwell's rule is also relevant. Unlike in the physical sciences, in markets and economies there's very
little that absolutely has to happen or definitely can't happen. Thus, in my book Mastering the Market
Cycle, I listed seven terms that investors should purge from their vocabularies: "never," "always,"
"forever," "can't," "won't," "will," and "has to." But if it's true that those words have to be discarded,
then so too must the idea that one can build a model that can dependably predict the macro future. In
other words, very little is immutable in our world.

The unpredictability of behavior is a favorite topic of mine. Noted physicist Richard Feynman once said,
"Imagine how much harder physics would be if electrons had feelings." The rules of physics are reliable
precisely because electrons always do what they're supposed to do. They never forget to perform. They
never rebel. They never go on strike. They never innovate. They never behave in a contrary manner.
But none of these things is true of the participants in an economy, and for that reason their
behavior is unpredictable. And if the participants' behavior is unpredictable, how can the
workings of an economy be modeled?

What we're talking about here is the future, and there's simply no way to deal with the future that
doesn't require the making of assumptions. Small errors in assumptions regarding the economic
environment and small changes in participants' behavior can make differences that are highly
problematic. As mathematician and meteorologist Edward Lorenz famously suggested, "The flapping of
a butterfly's wings in Brazil could set off a tornado in Texas." (Historian Niall Ferguson references this
remark in the article I discuss below.)

Thinking about all the above, can we ever consider a model of an economy to be reliable? Can a model
replicate reality? Can it describe the millions of participants and their interactions? Are the processes it
attempts to model dependable? Can the processes be reduced to mathematics? Can mathematics capture
the qualitative nuances of people and their behavior? Can a model anticipate changes in consumer
preferences, changes in the behavior of businesses, and participants' reactions to innovation? In other
words, can we trust its output?

Clearly, economic relationships aren't hard-wired, and economies aren't governed by schematic diagrams
(which models try to simulate). Thus, for me, the bottom line is that the output from a model may
point in the right direction much of the time, when the assumptions aren't violated. But it can't
always be accurate, especially at critical moments such as inflection points . . . and that's when
accurate predictions would be most valuable.

The Inputs

 No amount of sophistication is going to allay the fact that all of your knowledge is about
 the past and all your decisions are about the future.

 - Ian H. Wilson (former GE executive)

Having considered the incredible complexity of an economy and the need to make simplifying
assumptions that decrease any economic model's accuracy, let's now think about the inputs a model
requires - the raw materials from which forecasts are manufactured. Will the estimated inputs prove
valid? Can we know enough about them for the resulting forecast to be meaningful? Or will we simply
be reminded of the ultimate truth about models: "garbage in, garbage out"? Clearly, no forecast can
be better than the inputs on which it's based.

Here's what Niall Ferguson wrote in Bloomberg Opinion on July 17:

 Consider for a moment what we are implicitly asking when we pose the question: Has
 inflation peaked? We are not only asking about the supply of and demand for
 94,000 different commodities, manufactures and services. We are also asking about the
 future path of interest rates set by the Fed, which - despite the much-vaunted policy of
 "forward guidance" - is far from certain. We are asking about how long the strength of
 the dollar will be sustained, as it is currently holding down the price of U.S. imports.

 But there's more. We are at the same time implicitly asking how long the war in Ukraine
 will last, as the disruption caused since February by the Russian invasion has
 significantly exacerbated energy and food price inflation. We are asking whether oil-
 producing countries such as Saudi Arabia will respond to pleas from Western
 governments to pump more crude. . . .

 We should probably also ask ourselves what the impact on Western labor markets will be
 of the latest Covid omicron sub-variant, BA.5. UK data indicate that BA.5 is 35% more
 transmissible than its predecessor BA.2, which in turn was over 20% more transmissible
 than the original omicron.

 Good luck adding all those variables to your model. It is in fact just as impossible to be
 sure about the future path of inflation as it is to be sure about the future path of the war in
 Ukraine and the future path of the Covid pandemic.

I found Ferguson's article so relevant to the subject of this memo that I'm including a link to it here. It
makes a lot of important points, although I beg to differ in one regard. Ferguson says above, "It is in fact
just as impossible to be sure about the future path of inflation as it is to be sure about the future path of
the war in Ukraine and the future path of the Covid pandemic." I think accurately predicting inflation is
"more impossible" (if there is such a thing) than predicting the outcomes of the other two, since doing so
requires being right about both of those outcomes and a thousand other things. How can anyone possibly
get all these things right?

Here's my rough description of the forecasting process from The Value of Predictions:

 I imagine that for most money managers, the process goes like this: "I predict the
 economy will do A. If A happens, interest rates should do B. With interest rates of B,
 the stock market should do C. Under that environment, the best performing sector should
 be D, and stock E should rise the most." The portfolio expected to do best under that
 scenario is then assembled.

 But how likely is E anyway? Remember that E is conditioned on A, B, C and D. Being
 right two-thirds of the time would be a great accomplishment in the world of forecasting.
 But if each of the five predictions has a 67% chance of being right, then there is a 13%
 probability that all five will be correct and that the stock will perform as expected.

Predicting event E on the basis of assumptions concerning A, B, C and D is what I call single-
scenario forecasting. In other words, if what was assumed regarding A, B, C or D turns out to have been
erroneous, the forecasted outcome for E is unlikely to materialize. All of the underlying forecasts have to
be right in order for E to turn out as predicted, and that's highly improbable. No one can invest
intelligently without considering (a) the other possible outcomes for each element, (b) the likelihood of
these alternative scenarios, (c) what would have to happen for one of them to be the actual outcome, and
(d) what the impact on E would be.

Ferguson's article raises an interesting question about economic modeling: What's to be assumed
regarding the general macro environment under which economic participants will operate? Doesn't this
question indicate an insoluble feedback loop: To predict the overall performance of the economy,
we need to make assumptions about, for example, consumer behavior. But to predict consumer
behavior, don't we need to make assumptions regarding the overall economic environment?
In Nobody Knows II (March 2020), my first memo of the pandemic, I mentioned that in a discussion of
the coronavirus, Harvard epidemiologist Marc Lipsitch had said there are (a) facts, (b) informed

extrapolations from analogies to other viruses, and (c) opinion or speculation. This is standard fare when
we deal with uncertain events. In the case of economic or market forecasts, we have a vast trove of
history and lots of analogous past events from which to extrapolate (neither of which was the case with
Covid-19). But even when these things are used as inputs for a well-constructed forecasting machine,
they're still highly unlikely to be predictive of the future. They may be useful fodder, or they may be
garbage.

To illustrate, people often ask me which of the past cycles I've experienced was most like this one. My
answer is that current developments bear a passing resemblance to some past cycles, but there is no
absolute parallel. The differences are profound in every case and outweigh the similarities. And
even if we could find an identical prior period, how much reliance should we put on a sample size of
one? I'd say not much. Investors rely on historical references (and the forecasts they foster)
because they fear that without them they'd be flying blind. But that doesn't make them reliable.

Unpredictable Influences

 Forecasts create the mirage that the future is knowable.

 - Peter Bernstein

We can't consider the reasonableness of forecasting without first deciding whether we think our
world is one of order or of randomness. Put simply, is it entirely predictable, entirely unpredictable, or
something in between? The bottom line for me is that it's in between, but unpredictable enough that most
forecasts are unhelpful. And since our world is predictable at some times and unpredictable at others,
what good are forecasts if we can't tell which is which?

I learned a new word from reading Ferguson's article: "deterministic." It's defined by Oxford Languages
as "causally determined by preceding events or natural laws." The world is much simpler when we deal
with things that function according to rules . . . like Feynman's electrons. But, clearly, economies and
markets aren't governed by natural laws - thanks to the involvement of people - and preceding events
may "set the stage" or "tend to repeat," but events rarely unfold in the same way twice. Thus, I believe
the processes that constitute the operation of economies and markets aren't deterministic, meaning they
aren't predictable.

Further, the inputs clearly are undependable. Many are subject to randomness, such as weather,
earthquakes, accidents, and deaths. Others involve political and geopolitical issues - ones we're aware of
and ones that haven't yet surfaced.

In his Bloomberg Opinion article, Ferguson mentioned the English writer G. K. Chesterton. That
reminded me to include a Chesterton quote that I used in Risk Revisited Again (June 2015):

 The real trouble with this world of ours is not that it is an unreasonable world, nor even
 that it is a reasonable one. The commonest kind of trouble is that it is nearly reasonable,
 but not quite. Life is not an illogicality; yet it is a trap for logicians. It looks just a little
 more mathematical and regular than it is; its exactitude is obvious, but its
 inexactitude is hidden; its wildness lies in wait. (Emphasis added)

Going back to the lunch described on page one, the host opened the proceedings roughly as follows: "In
recent years, we've experienced the Covid-19 pandemic, the surprising success of the Fed's rescue
actions, and the invasion of Ukraine. This has been a very challenging environment, since all of these

developments arrived out of the blue." I imagine the implication for him was that the attendees should let
themselves off the hook for the inaccuracy of their 2020-22 forecasts and go back to work predicting
future events and betting on their judgments. But my reaction was quite different: "The list of events that
shaped the current environment is quite extensive. Doesn't the fact that no one was able to predict any
of them convince those present that they should give up on forecasting?"

For another example, let's think back to the fall of 2016. There were two things that almost everyone was
sure of: (a) Hillary Clinton would be elected president and (b) if for some reason Donald Trump were
elected instead, the markets would tank. Nonetheless, Trump won, and the markets soared. The impact
on the economy and markets over the last six years was profound, and I'm confident no forecast that
took a conventional view of the coming 2016 election got the period since then correct. Again,
shouldn't that be enough to convince people that (a) we don't know what's going to happen and (b) we
don't know how the markets will react to what happens?

Do Forecasts Add Value?

 It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that
 just ain't so.

 - Mark Twain

As I mentioned in my recent memo Thinking About Macro, in the 1970s we used to describe an
economist as "a portfolio manager who never marks to market." In other words, economists make
forecasts; events prove them either wrong or right; they go on to make new forecasts; but they don't keep
track of how often they get it right (or they don't publish the stats).

Can you imagine hiring a money manager (or being hired, if you are a money manager) without reference
to a track record? And yet, economists and strategists stay in business, presumably because there are
customers for their forecasts, despite there being no published records.

Are you a consumer of forecasts? Are there forecasters and economists on staff where you work? Or do
you subscribe to their publications and invite them in for briefings, as was the case with my previous
employers? If so, do you know how often each has been right? Have you found a way to rigorously
determine which ones to rely on and which to ignore? Is there a way to quantify their contributions to
your investment returns? I ask because I've never seen or heard of any research along these lines. The
world seems incredibly short on information regarding the value added by macro forecasts, especially
given the large number of people involved in this pursuit.

Despite the lack of evidence regarding its value, macro forecasting goes on. Many of the forecasters are
part of teams managing equity funds, or they provide advice and forecasts to those teams. What we know
for sure is that actively managed equity funds have been losing market share to index funds and other
passive vehicles for decades due to the poor performance of active management, and as a result, actively
managed funds now account for less than half of the capital in U.S. equity mutual funds. Could the
unhelpful nature of macro forecasts be part of the reason?

The only place I know to look for quantification regarding this issue is the performance of so-called
macro hedge funds. Hedge Fund Research (HFR) publishes broad hedge fund performance indices as
well as a number of sub-indices. Below is the long-term performance of a broad hedge fund index, a
macro fund sub-index, and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.

 HFRI Hedge Fund HFRI Macro (Total) S&P 500 Index
 Index* Index

 * Performance through July 31, 2022. The broad hedge fund index shown is the Fund Weighted
 Composite Index.

What the table above shows is that, according to HFR, the average hedge fund woefully underperformed
the S&P 500 in the period under study, and the average macro fund did considerably worse (especially in
the period from 2012 to 2017). Given that investors continue to entrust roughly $4.5 trillion of capital to
hedge funds, they must deliver some benefit other than returns, but it's not obvious what that could be.
This seems to be especially true for the macro funds.

To support my opinion regarding forecasts, I'll cite a rare example of self-assessment: a seven-page
feature that appeared in the Sunday Opinion section of The New York Times on July 24 titled "I Was
Wrong." In it, eight Times opinion writers opened up about incorrect predictions they made and flawed
advice they had given. The most relevant here is Paul Krugman, who wrote a confession titled "I Was
Wrong About Inflation." I'll string together some excerpts:

 In early 2021, there was an intense debate among economists about the likely
 consequences of the American Rescue Plan . . . . I was on [the side that was less
 concerned about the impact on inflation]. As it turned out, of course, that was a very bad
 call. . . .

 . . . history wouldn't have led us to expect this much inflation from overheating. So
 something was wrong with my model . . . . One possibility is that history was
 misleading . . . . Also, disruptions associated with adjusting to the pandemic and its
 aftermath may still be playing a large role. And of course both Russia's invasion of
 Ukraine and China's lockdown of major cities have added a whole new level of
 disruption. . . .

 In any case, the whole experience has been a lesson in humility. Nobody will believe
 this, but in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis, standard economic models performed pretty
 well, and I felt comfortable applying these models in 2021. But in retrospect I should
 have realized that in the face of the new world created by Covid-19, that kind of
 extrapolation wasn't a safe bet. (Emphasis added)

I salute Krugman for this incredible bout of candor (although I have to say I don't remember a lot of
2009-10 market forecasts that were optimistic enough to capture the reality of the subsequent decade).
Krugman's explanation for his error is fine as far as it goes, but I don't see any mention of
abstaining from modeling, extrapolating, or forecasting in the future.

Humility may even be seeping into one of the world's biggest producers of economic forecasts, the U.S.
Federal Reserve, home of more than 400 Ph.D. economists. Here's what economist Gary Shilling wrote
in Bloomberg Opinion on August 22:

 The Federal Reserve's forward guidance program has been a disaster, so much so that it
 has strained the central bank's credibility. Chair Jerome Powell seems to agree that

 providing estimates of where the Fed sees interest rates, economic growth and inflation at
 different points in the future should be junked. . . .

 The basic problem with forward guidance is that it depends on data that the Fed
 had a miserable record of forecasting. It was consistently too optimistic about an
 economic recovery after the 2007-2009 Great Recession. In September 2014, policy
 makers forecast real gross domestic product growth in 2015 of 3.40% but were forced to
 constantly crank their expectations down to 2.10% by September 2015.

 The federal funds rate is not a market-determined interest rate but is set and
 controlled by the Fed, and nobody challenges the central bank. Yet the FOMC
 members were infamously terrible at forecasting what they themselves would do . . .
 In 2015, their average projection of the 2016 federal funds rate was 0.90% and 3.30% in
 2019. The actual numbers were 0.38% and 2.38%. . . .

 To be sure, many current events today have caused uncertainty in markets, but the Fed
 has been in there hot and heavy with its forward guidance. Recall that early this year the
 central bank believed that inflation caused by frictions in reopening the economy after the
 pandemic and supply-chain disruptions was temporary. Only belatedly did it reverse
 gears, raise rates and signal that further substantial hikes are coming. Faulty Fed
 forecasts resulted in faulty forward guidance and increased financial market volatility.
 (Emphasis added)

Lastly on this subject, where are the people who've gotten famous (and rich) by profiting from macro
views? I certainly don't know everyone in the investment world, but among the people I do know or am
aware of, there are only a few highly successful "macro investors." When the number of instances of
something is tiny, it's an indication, as my mother used to say, that they're "the exceptions that prove the
rule." The rule in this case is that macro forecasts rarely lead to exceptional performance. For me,
the exceptionalness of the success stories proves the general truth of that assertion.

Practitioners' Need to Predict

 Forecasts usually tell us more of the forecaster than of the future.

 - Warren Buffett

How many people are capable of making macro forecasts that are valuable most of the time? Not many, I
think. And how many investment managers, economists, and forecasters try? Thousands, at a minimum.
That raises an interesting question: why? If macro forecasts don't add to investment success over time,
why do so many members of the investment management industry espouse belief in forecasts and pursue
them? I think the reasons probably center on these:

 • It's part of the job.
 • Investors have always done it.
 • Everyone I know does it, especially my competitors.
 • I've always done it - I can't quit now.
 • If I don't do it, I won't be able to attract clients.

 • Since investing consists of positioning capital to benefit from future events, how can anyone
 expect to do a good job without a view regarding what those events will be? We need forecasts,
 even if they're imperfect.

This summer, at the suggestion of my son Andrew, I read an extremely interesting book: Mistakes Were
Made (but Not by Me): Why We Justify Foolish Beliefs, Bad Decisions, and Hurtful Acts, written by
psychologists Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson. Its topic is self-justification. The authors explain that
"cognitive dissonance" arises when people are confronted with new evidence that calls into question
their pre-existing positions and that when it does, unconscious mechanisms enable them to justify
and uphold those positions. Here are some selected quotes:

 If you hold a set of beliefs that guide your practice and you learn that some of them are
 incorrect, you must either admit you were wrong and change your approach or reject the
 new evidence.

 Most people, when directly confronted by evidence that they are wrong, do not change
 their point of view or plan of action but justify it even more tenaciously.

 Once we are invested in a belief and have justified its wisdom, changing our minds is
 literally hard work. It's much easier to slot that new evidence into an existing framework
 and do the mental justification to keep it there than it is to change the framework.

The mechanisms that people generally employ when responding to evidence that throws their beliefs into
doubt include these (paraphrasing the authors' words):

 • an unwillingness to heed dissonant information;
 • selectively remembering parts of their lives, focusing on those parts that support their own points
 of view; and
 • operating under cognitive biases that ensure people see what they want to see and seek
 confirmation of what they already believe.

I have little doubt that these are among the factors that cause and enable people to continue making and
consuming forecasts. What specific form might they take in this case?

 • thinking of macro forecasts as an indispensable part of investing;
 • pleasantly recalling correct forecasts, especially any that were bold and non-consensus;
 • overestimating how often forecasts were right;
 • forgetting or minimizing the ones that were wrong;
 • not keeping records regarding forecasts' accuracy or failing to calculate a batting average;
 • focusing on the "pot of gold" that will reward correct forecasts in the future;
 • saying "everyone does it"; and
 • perhaps most importantly, blaming unsuccessful forecasts on having been blindsided by random
 occurrences or exogenous events. (But, as I said earlier, that's the point: Why make forecasts if
 they're so easily rendered inaccurate?)

Most people - even honest people with good intentions - take positions or actions that are in their own
interests, sometimes at the expense of others or of objective truth. They don't know they're doing it; they
think it's the right thing; and they have tons of justification. As Charlie Munger often says, quoting
Demosthenes, "Nothing is easier than self-deceit. For what every man wishes, that he also believes to be
true."

I don't think of forecasters as crooks or charlatans. Most are bright, educated people who think they're
doing something useful. But self-interest causes them to act in a certain way, and self-justification
enables them to stick with it in the face of evidence to the contrary. As Morgan Housel put it in a
recent newsletter:

 The inability to forecast the past has no impact on our desire to forecast the future.
 Certainty is so valuable that we'll never give up the quest for it, and most people couldn't
 get out of bed in the morning if they were honest about how uncertain the future is. ("Big
 Beliefs," Collaborative Fund, August 24, 2022)

For my birthday several years ago, my Oaktree co-founder Richard Masson gave me one of his typical
quirky gifts. In this case, it consisted of some bound copies of The New York Times. I've been waiting
for an opportunity to write about my favorite sub-headline from the issue dated October 30, 1929, which
followed two days on which the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined by a total of 23%. It read,
"Bankers Optimistic." (Less than three years later, the Dow was roughly 85% lower.) Most bankers -
and most money managers - seem to be congenitally optimistic about the future. Among other things, it's
in their best interests, as it helps them do more business. But their optimism certainly shapes their
forecasts and their resulting behavior.

Can They or Can't They?

 I never think about the future - it comes soon enough.

 - Albert Einstein

Consider the following aspects of macro forecasting:

 • the number of assumptions/inputs that are required,
 • the number of processes/relationships that have to be incorporated,
 • the inherent undependability and instability of those processes, and
 • the role of randomness and the likelihood of surprises.

The bottom line for me is that forecasts can't be right often enough to be worthwhile. I've described it
many times, but just for the sake of completeness, I'm going to restate my view of the utility (or rather,
futility) of macro forecasts:

 • Most forecasts consist of extrapolation of past performance.
 • Because macro developments usually don't diverge from prior trends, extrapolation is usually
 successful.
 • Thus, most forecasts are correct. But since extrapolation is usually anticipated by security prices,
 those who follow expectations based on extrapolation don't enjoy unusual profits when it holds.
 • Once in a while, the behavior of the economy does deviate materially from past patterns. Since
 this deviation comes as a surprise to most investors, its occurrence moves markets, meaning an
 accurate prediction of the deviation would be highly profitable.
 • However, since the economy doesn't diverge from past performance very often, correct forecasts
 of deviation are rarely made and most forecasts of deviation turn out to be incorrect.

 • Thus, we have (a) extrapolation forecasts, most of which are correct but unprofitable, and (b)
 potentially profitable forecasts of deviation, which are rarely correct and thus are generally
 unprofitable.
 • Q.E.D.: Most forecasts don't add to returns.

At the lunch described at the beginning of this memo, people were asked what they expected in terms of,
for example, Fed policy, and how that influenced their investment stance. One person replied with
something like, "I think the Fed will remain very worried about inflation and thus will raise rates
significantly, bringing on a recession. So I'm in risk-off mode." Another said, "I foresee inflation
moderating in the fourth quarter, allowing the Fed to turn dovish in January. That will allow them to
bring interest rates back down and stimulate the economy. I'm very bullish on 2023."

We hear statements like these all the time. But it must be recognized that these people are applying
one-factor models: The speaker is basing his or her forecast on a single variable. Talk about simplifying
assumptions: These forecasters are implicitly holding everything constant other than Fed policy. They're
playing checkers when they need to be playing 3-D chess. Leaving aside the impossibility of predicting
Fed behavior, the reaction of inflation to that behavior, and the reaction of markets to inflation, what
about all the other things that matter? If a thousand things play a part in determining the future direction
of the economy and markets, what about the other 999? What about the impact of wage negotiations, the
mid-term elections, the war in Ukraine, and the price of oil?

The truth is that humans can hold only a few things in their minds at any given time. It's hard to factor
in a large number of considerations and especially to understand how a large number of things will
interact (correlation is always the real stumper).

Even if you somehow manage to get an economic forecast correct, that's only half the battle. You still
need to anticipate how that economic activity will translate into a market outcome. This requires an
entirely different forecast, also involving innumerable variables, many of which pertain to psychology
and thus are practically unknowable. According to his student Warren Buffett, Ben Graham said, "In the
short run, the market is a voting machine, but in the long run, it is a weighing machine." How can
investors' short-run choices be predicted? Some economic forecasters correctly concluded that the
actions of the Fed and Treasury announced in March 2020 would rescue the U.S. economy and
trigger an economic recovery. But I'm not aware of anyone who predicted the torrid bull market
that lifted off well before the recovery got underway.

As I've described before, in 2016 Buffett shared with me his view of macro forecasts. "For a piece of
information to be desirable, it has to satisfy two criteria: It has to be important, and it has to be
knowable."

 • Of course, the macro outlook is important. These days it seems as if investors hang on every
 forecaster's word, macro event, and twitch on the part of the Fed. Unlike my early days in this
 business, it seems like macro is everything and corporate developments count for relatively little.
 • But I agree strongly with Buffett that the macro future isn't knowable, or at least almost no
 one can consistently know more about it than the mass of investors, which is what matters in
 trying to gain a knowledge advantage and make superior investment decisions.

Clearly, Buffett's name goes at the top of the list of investors who've succeeded by shunning macro
forecasts and instead focusing on learning more than others about "the micro": companies, industries and
securities.

 * * *

In a 2001 memo called What's It All About, Alpha?, I introduced the concept of the "I know" school and
the "I don't know" school, and in 2004, I elaborated on this at length in Us and Them. To close the
current memo, I'm going to insert some of what I wrote in the latter about the two schools:

 Most of the investors I've met over the years have belonged to the "I know" school. This
 was particularly true in 1968-78, when I analyzed equities, and even in 1978-95, when I
 had switched to non-mainstream investments but still worked at equity-centric money
 management firms.

 It's easy to identify members of the "I know" school:

 • They think knowledge of the future direction of economies, interest rates,
 markets and widely followed mainstream stocks is essential for investment
 success.
 • They're confident it can be achieved.
 • They know they can do it.
 • They're aware that lots of other people are trying to do it too, but they figure
 either (a) everyone can be successful at the same time, or (b) only a few can be,
 but they're among them.
 • They're comfortable investing based on their opinions regarding the future.
 • They're also glad to share their views with others, even though correct forecasts
 should be of such great value that no one would give them away gratis.
 • They rarely look back to rigorously assess their record as forecasters.

 "Confident" is the key word for describing members of this school. For the "I don't
 know" school, on the other hand, the word - especially when dealing with the macro-
 future - is "guarded." Its adherents generally believe you can't know the future; you
 don't have to know the future; and the proper goal is to do the best possible job of
 investing in the absence of that knowledge.

 As a member of the "I know" school, you get to opine on the future (and maybe have
 people take notes). You may be sought out for your opinions and considered a desirable
 dinner guest . . . especially when the stock market's going up.

 Join the "I don't know" school and the results are more mixed. You'll soon tire of saying
 "I don't know" to friends and strangers alike. After a while, even relatives will stop
 asking where you think the market's going. You'll never get to enjoy that 1-in-1,000
 moment when your forecast comes true and The Wall Street Journal runs your picture.
 On the other hand, you'll be spared all those times when forecasts miss the mark, as well
 as the losses that can result from investing based on over-rated knowledge of the future.
 But how do you think it feels to have prospective clients ask about your investment
 outlook and have to say, "I have no idea"?
 For me, the bottom line on which school is best comes from the late Stanford behaviorist,
 Amos Tversky: "It's frightening to think that you might not know something, but
 more frightening to think that, by and large, the world is run by people who have
 faith that they know exactly what's going on."

It's certainly standard practice in the investment management business to come up with macro forecasts,
share them on request, and bet clients' money on them. It also seems conventional for money managers
to trust in forecasts, especially their own. Not doing so would introduce enormous dissonance, as
described above. But is their belief justified by the facts? I'm eager to hear what you think.

 * * *

A few years ago, a highly respected sell-side economist with whom I became friendly during my early
Citibank days called me with an important message: "You've changed my life," he said. "I've stopped
making forecasts. Instead, I just tell people what's going on today and what I see as the possible
implications for the future. Life is so much better." Can I help you reach the same state of bliss?


Memo: What Really Matters?.

I've gathered a few ideas from several of my memos this year - plus some recent musings and
conversations - to form the subject of this memo: what really matters or should matter for investors. I'll
start by examining a number of things that I think don't matter.

What Doesn't Matter: Short-Term Events

In The Illusion of Knowledge (September 2022), I railed against macro forecasting, which in our
profession mostly concerns the next year or two. And in I Beg to Differ (July 2022), I discussed the
questions I was asked most frequently at Oaktree's June 21 conference in London: How bad will inflation
get? How much will the Fed raise interest rates to fight it? Will those increases cause a recession? How
bad and for how long? The bottom line, I told the attendees, was that these things all relate to the short
term, and this is what I know about the short term:

 • Most investors can't do a superior job of predicting short-term phenomena like these.
 • Thus, they shouldn't put much stock in opinions on these subjects (theirs or those of others).
 • They're unlikely to make major changes in their portfolios in response to these opinions.
 • The changes they do make are unlikely to be consistently right.
 • Thus, these aren't the things that matter.

Consider an example. In response to the first tremors of the Global Financial Crisis, the Federal Reserve
began to cut the fed funds rate in 3Q2007. They then lowered it to zero around the end of 2008 and left it
there for seven years. In late 2015, virtually the only question I got was "When will the first rate increase
occur?" My answer was always the same: "Why do you care? If I say 'February,' what will you do?
And if I later change my mind and say 'May,' what will you do differently? If everyone knows rates are
about to rise, what difference does it make which month the process starts?" No one ever offered a
convincing answer. Investors probably think asking such questions is part of behaving professionally, but
I doubt they could explain why.

The vast majority of investors can't know for sure what macro events lie just ahead or how the markets
will react to the things that do happen. In The Illusion of Knowledge, I wrote at length about the way
unforeseen events make a hash of economic and market forecasts. In summary, most forecasts are
extrapolations, and most of the time things don't change, so extrapolations are usually correct, but not
particularly profitable. On the other hand, accurate forecasts of deviations from trend can be very
profitable, but they're hard to make and hard to act on. These are some of the reasons why most people
can't predict the future well enough to repeatably produce superior performance.

Why is doing this so hard? Don't most of us know what events are likely to transpire? Can't we just buy
the securities of the companies that are most likely to benefit from those events? In the long run, maybe,
but I want to turn to a theme that Bruce Karsh has been emphasizing lately, regarding a major reason why
it's particularly challenging to profit from a short-term focus: It's very difficult to know which
expectations regarding events are already incorporated in security prices.

One of the critical mistakes people are guilty of - we see it all the time in the media - is believing that
changes in security prices are the result of events: that favorable events lead to rising prices and negative
events lead to falling prices. I think that's what most people believe - especially first-level thinkers - but
that's not right. Security prices are determined by events and how investors react to those events,
which is largely a function of how the events stack up against investors' expectations.

How can we explain the company that reports higher earnings, only to see its stock price drop? The
answer, of course, is that the reported improvement fell short of expectations and thus disappointed
investors. So, at the most elementary level, it's not whether the event is simply positive or not, but how
the event compares with what was expected.

In my earliest working years, I used to spend a few minutes each day looking over the earnings reports
printed in The Wall Street Journal. But after a while, it dawned on me that since I didn't know what
numbers had been expected, I had no idea whether an announcement from a company I didn't follow was
good news or bad.

Investors can become expert regarding a few companies and their securities, but no one is likely to know
enough about macro events to (a) be able to understand the macro expectations that underlie the prices of
securities, (b) anticipate the broad events, and (c) predict how those securities will react. Where can a
prospective buyer look to find out what the investors who set securities prices already anticipate in terms
of inflation, GDP, or unemployment? Inferences regarding expectations can sometimes be drawn from
asset prices, but the inferred levels often aren't proved correct when the actual results come in.

Further, in the short term, security prices are highly susceptible to random and exogenous events that can
swamp the impact of fundamental events. Macro events and the ups and downs of companies' near-
term fortunes are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of - or relevant to - companies'
long-term prospects. So little attention should be paid to them. For example, companies often
deliberately reduce current earnings by investing in the future of their businesses; thus, low reported
earnings can imply high future earnings, not continued low earnings. To know the difference, you have to
have an in-depth understanding of the company.

No one should be fooled into thinking security pricing is a dependable process that accurately follows a
set of rules. Events are unpredictable; they can be altered by unpredictable influences; and investors'
reactions to the events that occur are unpredictable. Due to the presence of so much uncertainty, most
investors are unable to improve their results by focusing on the short term.

It's clear from observation that security prices fluctuate much more than economic output or company
profits. What accounts for this? It must be the fact that, in the short term, the ups and downs of
prices are influenced far more by swings in investor psychology than by changes in companies'
long-term prospects. Because swings in psychology matter more in the near term than changes in
fundamentals - and are so hard to predict - most short-term trading is a waste of time . . . or worse.

What Doesn't Matter: The Trading Mentality

Over the years, my memos have often included some of my father's jokes from the 1950s, based on my
strong belief that humor often reflects truths about the human condition. Given its relevance here, I'm
going to devote a bit of space to a joke I've shared before:

 Two friends meet in the street, and Joe asks Sam what's new. "Oh," he replies, "I just
 got a case of great sardines."

 Joe: Great, I love sardines. I'll take some. How much are they?

 Joe: What! How can a tin of sardines cost $10,000?

 Sam: These are the greatest sardines in the world. Each one is a pedigreed purebred,
 with papers. They were caught by net, not hook; deboned by hand; and packed
 in the finest extra-virgin olive oil. And the label was painted by a well-known
 artist. They're a bargain at $10,000.

 Joe: But who would ever eat $10,000 sardines?

 Sam: Oh, these aren't eating sardines; they're trading sardines.

I include this old joke because I believe most people treat stocks and bonds like something to trade, not
something to own.

If you ask Warren Buffett to describe the foundation of his approach to investing, he'll probably
start by insisting that stocks should be thought of as ownership interests in companies. Most people
don't start companies with the goal of selling them in the short term, but rather they seek to operate them,
enjoy profitability, and expand the business. Of course, founders do these things to ultimately make
money, but they're likely to view the money as the byproduct of having run a successful business.
Buffett says people who buy stocks should think of themselves as partners of owners with whom they
share goals.

But I think that's rarely the case. Most people buy stocks with the goal of selling them at a higher
price, thinking they're for trading, not for owning. This means they abandon the owner mentality and
instead act like gamblers or speculators who bet on stock price moves. The results are often unpleasant.

 The DALBAR Institute 2012 study showed that investors receive three percentage points
 less per year than the S&P 500 generated from 1992 to 2012, and the average holding
 period for a typical investor is six months. Six Months!! When you hold a stock for less
 than a year, you are not using the stock market to acquire business ownership positions
 and participate in the growth of that business. Instead, you are just guessing at short-term
 news and expectations, and your returns are based on how other people react to that news
 information. In aggregate, that kind of attitude gets you three percentage points less per
 year than you'd get from doing nothing at all beyond making the initial investment in the
 index fund of the S&P 500. ("Fidelity's Best Investors Are Dead," The Conservative
 Income Investor, April 8, 2020)

To me, buying for a short-term trade equates to forgetting about your sports team's chances of winning
the championship and instead betting on who's going to succeed in the next play, period, or inning.

Let's think about the logic. You buy a stock because you think it's worth more than you have to pay for
it, whereas the seller considers it fully priced. Someday, if things go well, it'll become fully priced, in

your opinion, meaning you'll sell it. The person you sell it to, however, will buy it because he thinks it's
worth still more. We used to talk about this process as being reliant on the Greater Fool Theory: No
matter what price I pay for a stock, there will always be someone who will buy it from me for more,
despite the fact that I'm selling because I've concluded that it has reached full value.

Every buyer is motivated by the belief that the stock will eventually be worth more than today's price (a
view the seller presumably doesn't share). The key question is what type of thinking underlies these
purchases. Are the buyers buying because this is a company they'd like to own a piece of for years?
Or are they merely betting that the price will go up? The transactions may look the same from the
outside, but I wonder about the thought process and thus the soundness of the logic.

Each time a stock is traded, one side is wrong and one is right. But if what you're doing is betting
on trends in popularity, and thus the direction of price moves over the next month, quarter, or
year, is it realistic to believe you'll be right more often than the person on the other side of the
trade? Maybe the decline of active management can be attributed to the many active managers who
placed bets on the direction of stock prices in the short term, instead of picking companies they wanted to
own part of for years. It's all a matter of the underlying mentality.

I had a long debate on this topic with my father back in 1969, when I lived with him during my first
months at First National City Bank. (It's amazing for me to think back to those days; he was so much
younger than I am today.) I told him I thought buying a stock should be motivated by something other
than the hope that the price would rise, and I suggested this might be the expectation that dividends would
increase over time. He countered that no one buys stocks for the dividends - they buy because they think
the price will go up. But what would trigger the rise?

Wanting to own a business for its commercial merit and long-term earnings potential is a good reason to
be a stockholder, and if these expectations are borne out, a good reason to believe the stock price will rise.
In the absence of that, buying in the hope of appreciation merely amounts to trying to guess which
industries and companies investors will favor in the future. Ben Graham famously said, "In the short run,
the market is a voting machine, but in the long run, it is a weighing machine." While none of this is
easy, as Charlie Munger once told me, carefully weighing long-term merit should produce better
results than trying to guess at short-term swings in popularity.

What Doesn't Matter: Short-Term Performance

Given the possible contributors to short-term investment performance, reported results can present a
highly misleading picture, and here I'm talking mostly about superior gains in good times. I feel there are
three ingredients for success during good times - aggressiveness, timing, and skill - and if you have
enough aggressiveness at the right time, you don't need that much skill. We all know that in good times,
the highest returns often go to the person whose portfolio incorporates the most risk, beta, and correlation.
Having such a portfolio isn't a mark of distinction or insight if the investor is a perma-bull who's always
positioned aggressively. Finally, random events can have an overwhelming impact on returns - in either
direction - in a given quarter or year.

One of the recurring themes in my memos is the idea that the quality of a decision cannot be determined
from the outcome alone. Decisions often lead to negative outcomes even when they're well-reasoned and
based on all the available information. On the other hand, we all know people - even occasionally
ourselves - who've been right for the wrong reason. Hidden information and random developments can

frustrate even the best thinkers' decisions. (However, when outcomes are considered over a long period
of time and a large number of trials, the better decision maker is overwhelmingly likely to have a higher
proportion of successes.)

Obviously, no one should attach much significance to returns in one quarter or year. Investment
performance is simply one result drawn from the full range of returns that could have materialized,
and in the short term, it can be heavily influenced by random events. Thus, a single quarter's
return is likely to be a very weak indicator of an investor's ability, if that. Deciding whether a
manager has special skill - or whether an asset allocation is appropriate for the long run - on the basis of
one quarter or year is like forming an opinion of a baseball player on the basis of one trip to the plate, or
of a racehorse based on one race.

We know short-term performance doesn't matter much. And yet, most of the investment committees I've
sat on have had the latest quarter's performance as the first item on the agenda and devoted a meaningful
portion of each meeting to it. The discussion is usually extensive, but it rarely leads to significant action.
So why do we keep doing it? For the same reasons investors pay attention to forecasting, as described in
The Illusion of Knowledge: "everyone does it," and "it would be irresponsible not to."

What Doesn't Matter: Volatility

I haven't written much about volatility, other than to say I strongly disagree with people who consider it
the definition or essence of risk. I've described my belief that the academics who developed the Chicago
School theory of investment in the early 1960s (a) wanted to examine the relationship between investment
returns and risk, (b) needed a number quantifying risk that they could put into their calculations, and (c)
undoubtedly chose volatility as a proxy for risk for the simple reason that it was the only quantifiable
metric available. I define risk as the probability of a bad outcome, and volatility is, at best, an indicator of
the presence of risk. But volatility is not risk. That's all I'm going to say on that subject.

What I want to talk about here is the extent to which thinking and caring about volatility has
warped the investing world over the 50-plus years that I've been in it. It was a great advantage for
me to have attended the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago in the late '60s and to
have been part of one of the very first classes that was taught the new theories. I learned about the
efficient market hypothesis, the capital asset pricing model, the random walk, the importance of risk
aversion, and the role of volatility as risk. While volatility wasn't a topic of conversation when I got into
the real world of investing in 1969, practice soon caught up with theory.

In particular, the Sharpe ratio was adopted as the measure of risk-adjusted return. It's the ratio of a
portfolio's excess return (the part of its return that exceeds the yield on T-bills) to its volatility. The more
return per unit of volatility, the higher the risk-adjusted return. Risk adjustment is an essential concept,
and returns should absolutely be evaluated relative to the risk that was taken to achieve them. Everyone
cites Sharpe ratios, including Oaktree, because it's the only quantitative tool available for the job. (If
investors, consultants, and clients didn't use the Sharpe ratio, they'd have no metric at all, and if they tried
to substitute fundamental riskiness for volatility in their assessments, they'd find that there's no way to
quantify it.) The Sharpe ratio may hint at risk-adjusted performance in the same way that volatility
hints at risk, but since volatility isn't risk, the Sharpe ratio is a very imperfect measure.

Take, for example, one of the asset classes I started working with in 1978: high yield bonds. At Oaktree,
we think moderately-above-benchmark returns can be produced with substantially less risk than the

benchmark, and this shows up in superior Sharpe ratios. But the real risk in high yield bonds - the one
we care about and have a history of reducing - is the risk of default. We don't much care about reducing
volatility, and we don't take conscious steps to do so. We believe high Sharpe ratios can result from -
and perhaps are correlated with - the actions we take to reduce defaults.

Volatility is particularly irrelevant in our field of fixed income or "credit." Bonds, notes, and loans
represent contractual promises of periodic interest and repayment at maturity. Most of the time when
you buy a bond with an 8% yield, you'll basically get the 8% yield over its life, regardless of
whether the bond price goes up or down in the interim. I say "basically" because, if the price falls,
you'll have the opportunity to reinvest the interest payments at yields above 8%, so your holding-period
return will creep up. Thus, the downward price volatility that so many revile is actually a good thing - as
long as it doesn't presage defaults. (Note that, as indicated in this paragraph, "volatility" is often a
misnomer. Strategists and the media often warn that "there may be volatility ahead." What they really
mean is "there may be price declines ahead." No one worries about, or minds experiencing, volatility to
the upside.)

It's essential to recognize that protection from volatility generally isn't a free good. Reducing
volatility for its own sake is a suboptimizing strategy: It should be presumed that favoring lower-
volatility assets and approaches will - all things being equal - lead to lower returns. Only managers
with superior skill, or alpha (see page 11), will be able to overcome this negative presumption and reduce
return less than they reduce volatility.

Nevertheless, since many clients, bosses, and other constituents are uncomfortable with radical ups and
downs (well, mostly with downs), asset managers often take steps to reduce volatility. Consider what
happened after institutional investors began to pile into hedge funds following the three-year decline of
stocks brought on by the bursting of the tech bubble in 2000. (This was the first three-year decline since
1939-41.) Hedge funds - previously members of a cottage industry where most funds had a few hundred
million dollars of capital from wealthy individuals - did much better than stocks in the downdraft.
Institutions were attracted to these funds' low volatility, and thus invested billions in them.

The average hedge fund delivered the stability the institutions wanted. But somewhere in the shuffle, the
idea of earning high returns with low volatility got lost. Instead, hedge fund managers pursued low
volatility as a goal in itself, since they knew it was what the institutions were after. As a result, over
roughly the last 18 years, the average hedge fund delivered the low volatility that was desired, but it was
accompanied by modest single-digit returns. No miracle there.

Why do I recite all this? Because volatility is just a temporary phenomenon (assuming you survive
it financially), and most investors shouldn't attach as much importance to it as they seem to. As I
wrote in I Beg to Differ, many investors have the luxury of being able to focus exclusively on the long
term . . . if they will take advantage of it. Volatility should be less of a concern for investors:

 • whose entities are long-lived, like life insurance companies, endowments, and pension funds;
 • whose capital isn't subject to lump-sum withdrawal;
 • whose essential activities won't be jeopardized by downward fluctuations;
 • who don't have to worry about being forced into mistakes by their constituents; and
 • who haven't levered up with debt that might have to be repaid in the short run.

Most investors lack some of these things, and few have them all. But to the extent these characteristics
are present, investors should take advantage of their ability to withstand volatility, since many
investments with the potential for high returns might be susceptible to substantial fluctuations.

Warren Buffett always puts it best, and on this topic he usefully said, "We prefer a lumpy 15%
return to a smooth 12% return." Investors who'd rather have the reverse - who find a smooth
12% preferable to a lumpy 15% - should ask themselves whether their aversion to volatility is
mostly financial or mostly emotional.

Of course, the choices made by employees, investment committee members, and hired investment
managers may have to reflect real-world considerations. People in charge of institutional portfolios can
have valid reasons for avoiding ups and downs that their organizations or clients might be able to stomach
in financial terms but would still find unpleasant. All anyone can do is the best they can under their
particular circumstances. But my bottom line is this: In many cases, people accord volatility far more
importance than they should.

An Aside

While I'm on the subject of volatility, I want to turn to an area that hasn't reported much of it of late:
private investment funds. The first nine months of 2022 constituted one of the worst periods on record
for both stocks and bonds. Yet many private equity and private debt funds are reporting only small losses
for the year to date. I'm often asked what this means, and whether it reflects reality.

Maybe the performance of private funds is being reported accurately. (I know we believe ours is.) But I
recently came across an interesting Financial Times article provocatively titled, "The volatility
laundering, return manipulation and 'phoney happiness' of private equity," by Robin Wigglesworth.
Here's some of its content:

 The widening performance gap between public and private markets is a huge topic these
 days. Investors are often seen as the gormless [foolish] dupes falling for the "return
 manipulation" of cunning private equity tycoons. But what if they are co-conspirators? . . .

 That's what a new paper from three academics at the University of Florida argues. Based
 on nearly two decades worth of private equity real estate funds data, Blake Jackson,
 David Ling and Andy Naranjo conclude that "private equity fund managers manipulate
 returns to cater to their investors."

 . . . Jackson, Ling and Naranjo's . . . central conclusion is that "GPs do not appear
 to manipulate interim returns to fool their LPs, but rather because their LPs want
 them to do so".

 Similar to the idea that banks design financial products to cater to yield-seeking
 investors or firms issue dividends to cater to investor demand for dividend
 payments, we argue that PE fund managers boost interim performance reports
 to cater to some investors' demand for manipulated returns.

 . . . If a GP boosts or smooths returns, . . . investment managers within LP
 organizations can report artificially higher Sharpe ratios, alphas, and top-

 line returns, such as IRRs, to their trustees or other overseers. In doing so,
 these investment managers, whose median tenure of four years often expires
 years before the ultimate returns of a PE fund are realized, might improve their
 internal job security or potential labor market outcomes. . . .

 This probably helps explain why private equity firms on average actually reported gains
 of 1.6 per cent in the first quarter of 2022 and only some modest mark downwards since
 then, despite global equities losing 22 per cent of their value this year. (November 2,
 2022. Emphasis added)

If both GPs and LPs are happy with returns that seem unusually good, might the result be suspect? Is the
performance of private assets being stated accurately? Is the low volatility being reported genuine? If the
current business climate is challenging, shouldn't that affect the prices of public and private investments
alike?

But there's another series of relevant questions: Mightn't it be fair for GPs to decline to mark down
private investments in companies that have experienced short-term weakness but whose long-term
prospects remain bright? And while private investments might not have been marked down enough this
year, isn't it true that the prices of public securities are more volatile than they should be, overstating the
changes in long-term value? I certainly think public security prices reflect psychological swings that are
often excessive. Should the prices of private investments emulate this?

As with most things, any inaccuracy in reporting will eventually come to light. Eventually, private debt
will mature, and private equity holdings will have to be sold. If the returns being reported this year
understate the real declines in value, performance from here on out will likely look surprisingly poor.
And I'm sure this will lead plenty of academics (and maybe a few regulators) to question whether the
pricing of private investments in 2022 was too high. We'll see.

What Doesn't Matter: Hyper-Activity

In Selling Out (January 2022), I expressed my strong view that most investors trade too much. Since it's
hard to make multiple consecutive decisions correctly, and trading costs money and is often likely to
result from an investor's emotional swings, it's better to do less of it.

When I was a boy, there was a popular saying: Don't just sit there; do something. But for
investing, I'd invert it: Don't just do something; sit there. Develop the mindset that you don't make
money on what you buy and sell; you make money (hopefully) on what you hold. Think more. Trade
less. Make fewer, but more consequential, trades. Over-diversification reduces the importance of each
trade; thus it can allow investors to take actions without adequate investigation or great conviction. I
think most portfolios are overdiversified and over-traded.

I devoted a good portion of The Illusion of Knowledge and Selling Out to warning investors about how
difficult it is to improve returns through short-term market timing, and I quoted the great investor Bill
Miller: "Time, not timing, is key to building wealth in the stock market."

On this subject, I was recently asked by a consultant, "If you don't try to get in and out of the market as
appropriate, how do you earn your fees?" My answer was that it's our job to assemble portfolios that will
perform well over the long run, and market timing is unlikely to add to the outcome unless it can be done

well, which I'm not convinced is usually the case. "What about you?" I asked. "If you help a client
establish an appropriate asset allocation, does it follow that you're not earning your fees if you don't
change it a month later?"

Likewise, the day The Illusion of Knowledge came out, an old friend asked me, "But you have to take a
position [on short-run events], don't you?" My answer, predictably, was, "No, not if you don't have an
advantage when doing so. Why would you bet on the outcome of a coin toss, especially if it cost money
to play?"

I'll end my discussion of this subject with a wonderful citation:

 A news item that has gotten a lot of attention recently concerned an internal performance
 review of Fidelity accounts to determine which type of investors received the best returns
 between 2003 and 2013. The customer account audit revealed that the best investors were
 either dead or inactive - the people who switched jobs and "forgot" about an old 401(k)
 leaving the current options in place, or the people who died and the assets were frozen
 while the estate handled the assets. ("Fidelity's Best Investors Are Dead," The
 Conservative Income Investor, April 8, 2020)

Since the journalists have been unable to find the Fidelity study, and apparently so has Fidelity, the story
is probably apocryphal. But I still like the idea, since the conclusion is so much in line with my thinking.
I'm not saying it's worth dying to improve investment performance, but it might be a good idea for
investors to simulate that condition by sitting on their hands.

So What Does Matter?

What really matters is the performance of your holdings over the next five or ten years (or more)
and how the value at the end of the period compares to the amount you invested and to your needs.
Some people say the long run is a series of short runs, and if you get those right, you'll enjoy success in
the long run. They might think the route to success consists of trading often in order to capitalize on
relative value assessments, predictions regarding swings in popularity, and forecasts of macro events. I
obviously do not.

Most individual investors and anyone who understands the limitations regarding outperformance would
probably be best off holding index funds over the long run. Investment professionals and others who feel
they need or want to engage in active management might benefit from the following suggestions.

I think most people would be more successful if they focused less on the short run or macro trends and
instead worked hard to gain superior insight concerning the outlook for fundamentals over multi-year
periods in the future. They should:

 • study companies and securities, assessing things such as their earnings potential;
 • buy the ones that can be purchased at attractive prices relative to their potential;
 • hold onto them as long as the company's earnings outlook and the attractiveness of the price
 remain intact; and
 • make changes only when those things can't be reconfirmed, or when something better comes
 along.

At the London conference mentioned on page one - while I was discussing (and discouraging)
paying attention to the short run - I said that at Oaktree we consider it our job to (a) buy debt that
will be serviced as promised (or will return the same amount or more if not) and (b) invest in
companies that will become more valuable over time. I'll stick with that.

The above description of the investor's job is quite simple . . . some might say simplistic. And it is.
Setting out the goals and the process in broad terms is easy. The hard part is executing better than most
people: That's the only route to market-beating performance. Since average decision-making is
reflected in security prices and produces average performance, superior results have to be based on
superior insight. But I can't tell you how to do these things better than the average investor.
There's a lot more to the process, and I'm going to outline some of what I think are key elements to
remember. You'll recognize recurring themes here, from other memos and from earlier pages in this one,
but I make no apology for dwelling on things that are important:

 • Forget the short run - only the long run matters. Think of securities as interests in companies, not
 trading cards.
 • Decide whether you believe in market efficiency. If so, is your market sufficiently inefficient to
 permit outperformance, and are you up to the task of exploiting it?
 • Decide whether your approach will lean more toward aggressiveness or defensiveness. Will you
 try to find more and bigger winners or focus on avoiding losers, or both? Will you try to make
 more on the way up or lose less on the down, or both? (Hint: "both" is much harder to achieve
 than one or the other.) In general, people's investment styles should fit their personalities.
 • Think about what your normal risk posture should be - your normal balance between
 aggressiveness and defensiveness - based on your or your clients' financial position, needs,
 aspirations, and ability to live with fluctuations. Consider whether you'll vary your balance
 depending on what happens in the market.
 • Adopt a healthy attitude toward return and risk. Understand that "the more return potential, the
 better" can be a dangerous rule to follow given that increased return potential is usually
 accompanied by increased risk. On the other hand, completely avoiding risk usually leads to
 avoiding return as well.
 • Insist on an adequate margin of safety, or the ability to weather periods when things go less well
 than you expected.
 • Stop trying to predict the macro; study the micro like mad in order to know your subject better
 than others. Understand that you can expect to succeed only if you have a knowledge advantage,
 and be realistic about whether you have it or not. Recognize that trying harder isn't enough.
 Accept my son Andrew's view that merely possessing "readily available quantitative information
 regarding the present" won't give you above average results, since everyone else has it.
 • Recognize that psychology swings much more than fundamentals, and usually in the wrong
 direction or at the wrong time. Understand the importance of resisting those swings. Profit if you
 can by being counter-cyclical and contrarian.
 • Study conditions in the investment environment - especially investor behavior - and consider
 where things stand in terms of the cycle. Understand that where the market stands in its cycle
 will strongly influence whether the odds are in your favor or against you.
 • Buy debt when you like the yield, not for trading purposes. In other words, buy 9% bonds if you
 think the yield compensates you for the risk, and you'll be happy with 9%. Don't buy 9% bonds
 expecting to make 11% thanks to price appreciation resulting from declining interest rates.

Of critical importance, equity investors should make their primary goals (a) participating in the
secular growth of economies and companies and (b) benefiting from the wonder of compounding.
Think about the 10.5% yearly return of the S&P 500 Index (or its predecessors) since 1926 and the fact
that this would have turned $1 into over $13,000 by now, even though the period witnessed 16 recessions,
one Great Depression, several wars, one World War, a global pandemic, and many instances of
geopolitical turmoil.

Think of participating in the long-term performance of the average as the main event and the active
efforts to improve on it as "embroidery around the edges." This might be the reverse of most active
investors' attitudes. Improving results through over- and underweighting, short-term trading, market
timing, and other active measures isn't easy. Believing you can do these things successfully requires
the assumption that you're smarter than a bunch of very smart people. Think twice before
proceeding, as the requirements for success are high (see below).

Don't mess it up by over-trading. Think of buying and selling as an expense item, not a profit center. I
love the idea of the automated factory of the future, with its one man and one dog; The dog's job is to
keep the man from touching the machinery, and the man's job is to feed the dog. Investors should find a
way to keep their hands off their portfolios most of the time.

A Special Word in Closing: Asymmetry

"Asymmetry" is a concept I've been conscious of for decades and consider more important with
every passing year. It's my word for the essence of investment excellence and a standard against
which investors should be measured.

First, some definitions:

 • I'm going to talk below about whether an investor has "alpha." Alpha is technically defined as
 return in excess of the benchmark return, but I prefer to think of it as superior investing skill. It's
 the ability to find and exploit inefficiencies when they're present.
 • Inefficiencies - mispricings or mistakes - represent instances when an asset's price diverges from
 its fair value. These divergences can show up as bargains or the opposite, over-pricings.
 • Bargains will dependably perform better than other investments over time after adjustment for
 their riskiness. Over-pricings will do the opposite.
 • "Beta" is an investor's or a portfolio's relative volatility, also described as relative sensitivity or
 systematic risk.

People who believe in the efficient market hypothesis think of a portfolio's return as the product of the
market's return multiplied by the portfolio's beta. This is all it takes to explain results, since there are no
mispricings to take advantage of in an efficient market (and so no such thing as alpha). Thus, alpha is
skill that enables an investor to produce performance better than that which is explained purely by
market return and beta. Another way to say this is that having alpha allows an investor to enjoy profit
potential that is disproportionate to loss potential: asymmetry. In my view, asymmetry is present when an
investor can repeatedly do some or all of the following:

 • make more money in good markets than he gives back in bad markets,
 • have more winners than losers,
 • make more money on his winners than he loses on his losers,

 • do well when his aggressive or defensive bias proves timely but not badly when it doesn't,
 • do well when his sector or strategy is in favor but not badly when it isn't, and
 • construct portfolios so that most of the surprises are on the upside.

For example, most of us have an inherent bias toward either aggressiveness or defensiveness. For this
reason, it doesn't mean much if an aggressive investor outperforms in a good year or a defensive investor
outperforms in a bad year. To determine whether they have alpha and produce asymmetry, we have to
consider whether the aggressive investor is able to avoid the full loss that his aggressiveness alone would
produce in a bad market and whether the defensive investor can avoid missing out on too much of the
gain when the market does well. In my opinion, "excellence" lies in asymmetry between the results in
good and bad times.

As I see it, if inefficiencies are present in an investor's market, and she has alpha, the impact will
show up in asymmetrical returns. If her returns show no asymmetry, the investor doesn't have
alpha (or perhaps there are no inefficiencies for her to identify). Flipping that over, if an investor
doesn't have alpha, her returns won't be asymmetrical. It's as simple as that.

To simplify, here's how I think about asymmetry. This discussion is based on material I included in my
2018 book Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side. While I may appear to be talking
about one good year and one bad one, these observations can only be considered valid if these patterns
hold over a meaningful number of years.

Let's consider a manager's performance:

The above manager clearly adds no value. You might as well invest in an index fund (probably at a much
lower fee).

These two managers also add no value:

Manager B is just a no-alpha manager with a beta of 0.5, and manager C is a no-alpha manager with a
beta of 2.0. You could get the same results as manager B by putting half your capital in an index fund
and keeping the rest under your mattress and in the case of manager C, by doubling your investment with
borrowed capital and putting it all in an index fund.

These two managers, however, do have alpha, as they exhibit asymmetry:

Both managers' returns reflect more of the market's gain in good times than they do its loss in bad ones.
Manager D might be described as an aggressive manager with alpha; she achieves 170% of the market's
return when the market rises but suffers only 120% of the loss when it falls. Manager E is a defensive
manager with alpha; his returns reflect 90% of the gain in an up market but only 30% of the loss in a
down market. These asymmetries can only be attributed to the presence of alpha. Risk-tolerant clients
will prefer to invest with D, and risk-averse ones will prefer E.

This manager is truly exceptional:

She beat the market in both directions: She's up more than the market when it rises and down less when it
falls. She's up so much in a good market that you might be tempted to describe her as aggressive. But
since she's down less in a down market, that description won't hold. Either she doesn't have a bias in
terms of aggressiveness versus defensiveness, or her alpha is great enough to offset it.

Finally, here's one of the greatest managers of all time:

Manager G is up in good and bad markets alike. He clearly doesn't have an aggressiveness/defensiveness
bias, since his performance is exceptional in both markets. His alpha is sufficient to enable him to buck
the trend and achieve a positive return in a down year. When you find Manager G, you should (a) do
extensive due diligence regarding his reported performance, (b) if the numbers hold up, invest a lot of
money with him, (c) hope he won't accept so much money that his edge goes away, and (d) send me his
number.

 * * *

What matters most? Asymmetry.

 • In sum, asymmetry shows up in a manager's ability to do very well when things go his way and
 not too bad when they don't.

 • A great adage says, "Never confuse brains and a bull market." Managers with the skill needed to
 produce asymmetry are special because they're able to fashion good gains from sources other
 than market advances.
 • When you think about it, the active investment business is, at its heart, completely about
 asymmetry. If a manager's performance doesn't exceed what can be explained by market
 returns and his relative risk posture - which stems from his choice of market sector, tactics,
 and level of aggressiveness - he simply hasn't earned his fees.

Without asymmetry (see Managers A, B, and C on page 12), active management delivers no value and
deserves no fees. Indeed, all the choices an active investor makes will be for naught if he doesn't
possess superior skill or insight. By definition, average investors and below-average investors don't
have alpha and can't produce asymmetry.

The big question is how to achieve asymmetry. Most of the things people focus on - the things I describe
on pages one through nine as not mattering - can't provide it. As I've said before, the average of all
investors' thinking produces market prices and, obviously, average performance. Asymmetry can only
be demonstrated by the relatively few people with superior skill and insight. The key lies in finding
them.


Memo: Sea Change.

sea change (idiom): a complete transformation, a radical change of direction in attitude,
 goals . . . (Grammarist)

In my 53 years in the investment world, I've seen a number of economic cycles, pendulum swings,
manias and panics, bubbles and crashes, but I remember only two real sea changes. I think we may
be in the midst of a third one today.

As I've recounted many times in my memos, when I joined the investment management industry in 1969,
many banks - like the one I worked for at the time - focused their equity portfolios on the so-called
"Nifty Fifty." The Nifty Fifty comprised the stocks of companies that were considered the best and
fastest-growing - so good that nothing bad could ever happen to them. For these stocks, everyone was
sure there was "no price too high." But if you bought the Nifty Fifty when I started at the bank and held
them until 1974, you were sitting on losses of more than 90% . . . from owning pieces of the best
companies in America. Perceived quality, it turned out, wasn't synonymous with safety or with
successful investment.

Meanwhile, over in bond-land, a security with a rating of single-B was described by Moody's as "failing
to possess the characteristics of a desirable investment." Non-investment grade bonds - those rated
double-B and below - were off-limits to fiduciaries, since proper financial behavior mandated the
avoidance of risk. For this reason, what soon became known as high yield bonds couldn't be sold as new
issues. But in the mid-1970s, Michael Milken and a few others had the idea that it should be possible to
issue non-investment grade bonds - and to invest in them prudently - if the bonds offered enough interest
to compensate for the risk of default. In 1978, I started investing in these securities - the bonds of
perhaps America's riskiest public companies - and I was making money steadily and safely.

In other words, whereas prudent bond investing had previously consisted of buying only
presumedly safe investment grade bonds, investment managers could now prudently buy bonds of
almost any quality as long as they were adequately compensated for the attendant risk. The U.S.
high yield bond universe amounted to about $2 billion when I first got involved, and today it stands at
roughly $1.2 trillion.

This clearly represented a major change in direction for the business of investing. But that's not the end
of it. Prior to the inception of high yield bond issuance, companies could only be acquired by larger firms
- those that were able to pay with cash on hand or borrow large amounts of money and still retain their
investment grade ratings. But with the ability to issue high yield bonds, smaller firms could now acquire
larger ones by using heavy leverage, since there was no longer a need to possess or maintain an
investment grade rating. This change permitted, in particular, the growth of leveraged buyouts and what's
now called the private equity industry.

However, the most important aspect of this change didn't relate to high yield bonds, or to private
equity, but rather to the adoption of a new investor mentality. Now risk wasn't necessarily avoided,
but rather considered relative to return and hopefully borne intelligently. This new risk/return
mindset was critical in the development of many new types of investment, such as distressed debt,
mortgage backed securities, structured credit, and private lending. It's no exaggeration to say today's
investment world bears almost no resemblance to that of 50 years ago. Young people joining the
industry today would likely be shocked to learn that, back then, investors didn't think in
risk/return terms. Now that's all we do. Ergo, a sea change.

At roughly the same time, big changes were underway in the macroeconomic world. I think it all started
with the OPEC oil embargo of 1973-74, which caused the price of a barrel of oil to jump from roughly
$24 to almost $65 in less than a year. This spike raised the cost of many goods and ignited rapid
inflation. Because the U.S. private sector in the 1970s was much more unionized than it is now and many
collective bargaining agreements contained automatic cost-of-living adjustments, rising inflation triggered
wage increases, which exacerbated inflation and led to yet more wage increases. This seemingly
unstoppable upward spiral kindled strong inflationary expectations, which in many cases became self-
fulfilling, as is their nature.

The year-over-year increase in the Consumer Price Index, which was 3.2% in 1972, rose to 11.0% by
1974, receded to the range of 6-9% for four years, and then rebounded to 11.4% in 1979 and 13.5% in
1980. There was great despair, as no relief was forthcoming from inflation-fighting tools ranging from
WIN ("Whip Inflation Now") buttons to price controls to a federal funds rate that reached 13% in 1974.
It took the appointment of Paul Volcker as Fed chairman in 1979 and the determination he showed in
raising the fed funds rate to 20% in 1980 to get inflation under control and extinguish inflationary
psychology. As a result, inflation was back down to 3.2% by the end of 1983.

Volcker's success in bringing inflation under control allowed the Fed to reduce the fed funds rate to the
high single digits and keep it there over the rest of the 1980s, before dropping it to the mid-single digits in
the '90s. His actions ushered in a declining-interest-rate environment that prevailed for four
decades (much more on this in the section that follows). I consider this the second sea change I've
seen in my career.

The long-term decline in interest rates began just a few years after the advent of risk/return
thinking, and I view the combination of the two as having given rise to (a) the rebirth of optimism
among investors, (b) the pursuit of profit through aggressive investment vehicles, and (c) an
incredible four decades for the stock market. The S&P 500 Index rose from a low of 102 in August
1982 to 4,796 at the beginning of 2022, for a compound annual return of 10.3% per year. What a period!
There can be no greater financial and investment career luck than to have participated in it.

An Incredible Tailwind

What are the factors that gave rise to investors' success over the last 40 years? We saw major
contributions from (a) the economic growth and preeminence of the U.S.; (b) the incredible performance
of our greatest companies; (c) gains in technology, productivity and management techniques; and (d) the
benefits of globalization. However, I'd be surprised if 40 years of declining interest rates didn't play
the greatest role of all.

In the 1970s, I had a loan from a Chicago bank, with an interest rate of "three-quarters over prime." (We
don't hear much about the prime rate anymore, but it was the benchmark interest rate - the predecessor of
LIBOR - at which the money-center banks would lend to their best customers.) I received a notice from
the bank each time my rate changed, and I framed the one that marked the high point in December 1980:
It told me the interest rate on my loan had risen to 22.25%! Four decades later, I was able to borrow at
just 2.25%, fixed for 10 years. This represented a decline of 2,000 basis points. Miraculous!

What are the effects of declining interest rates?

 • They accelerate the growth of the economy by making it cheaper for consumers to buy on credit
 and for companies to invest in facilities, equipment, and inventory.
 • They provide a subsidy to borrowers (at the expense of lenders and savers).
 • They reduce businesses' cost of capital and thus increase their profitability.
 • They increase the fair value of assets. (The theoretical value of an asset is defined as the
 discounted present value of its future cash flows. The lower the discount rate, the higher the
 present value.) Thus, as interest rates fall, valuation parameters such as p/e ratios and enterprise
 values rise, and cap rates on real estate decline.
 • They reduce the prospective returns investors demand from investments they're considering,
 thereby increasing the prices they'll pay. This can be seen most directly in the bond market -
 everyone knows it's "rates down; prices up" - but it works throughout the investment world.
 • By lifting asset prices, they create a "wealth effect" that makes people feel richer and thus more
 willing to spend.
 • Finally, by simultaneously increasing asset values and reducing borrowing costs, they produce a
 bonanza for those who buy assets using leverage.

I want to spend more time on that last point. Think about a buyer who employs leverage in a declining-
rate environment:

 • He analyzes a company, concludes that he can make 10% a year on it, and decides to buy it.
 • Then he asks his head of capital markets how much it would cost to borrow 75% of the money.
 When he's told it's 8%, it's full speed ahead. Earning 10% on three-quarters of the capital that's
 borrowed at 8% would lever up the return on the other one-quarter (his equity) to 16%.
 • Banks compete to make the loan, and the result is an interest rate of 7% instead of 8%, making
 the investment even more profitable (a 19% levered return).
 • The interest cost on his floating-rate debt declines over time, and when his fixed-rate debt
 matures, he finds he can roll it over at 5%. Now the deal is a home run (a 25% levered return, all
 else being equal).

This narrative ignores the beneficial impact of declining interest rates on both the profitability of the
company he bought and the market value of that company. Is it any wonder then that private equity and
other levered strategies enjoyed great success over the last 40 years?

In a recent visit with clients, I came up with a bit of imagery to convey my view of the effect of the
prolonged decline in interest rates: At some airports, there's a moving walkway, and standing on it makes
life easier for the weary traveler. But if rather than stand still on it, you walk at your normal pace, you
move ahead rapidly. That's because your rate of travel over the ground is the sum of the speed at which
you're walking plus the speed at which the walkway is moving.

That's what I think happened to investors over the last 40 years. They enjoyed the growth of the
economy and the companies they invested in, as well as the resulting increase in the value of their
ownership stakes. But in addition, they were on a moving walkway, carried along by declining interest
rates. The results have been great, but I doubt many people fully understand where they came from. It
seems to me that a significant portion of all the money investors made over this period resulted
from the tailwind generated by the massive drop in interest rates. I consider it nearly impossible to
overstate the influence of declining rates over the last four decades.

The Recent Experience

The period between the end of the Global Financial Crisis in late 2009 and the onset of the pandemic in
early 2020 was marked by ultra-low interest rates, and the macroeconomic environment - and its effects -
were highly unusual.

An all-time low in interest rates was reached when the Fed cut the fed funds rate to approximately zero in
late 2008 in an effort to pull the economy out of the GFC. The low rates were accompanied by
quantitative easing: purchases of bonds undertaken by the Fed to inject liquidity into the economy (and
perhaps to keep investors from panicking). The effects were dramatic:

 • The low rates and vast amounts of liquidity stimulated the economy and triggered explosive gains
 in the markets.
 • Strong economic growth and lower interest costs added to corporate profits.
 • Valuation parameters rose, as described above, lifting asset prices. Stocks increased non-stop for
 more than ten years, except for a handful of downdrafts that each lasted a few months. From a
 low of 667 in March 2009, the S&P 500 reached a high of 3,386 in February 2020, for a
 compound return of 16% per year.
 • The markets' strength encouraged investors to drop their crisis-inspired risk aversion and
 return to risk taking much sooner than expected. It also made FOMO - the fear of missing
 out - the prevalent emotion among investors. Buyers were eager to buy, and holders
 weren't motivated to sell.
 • Investors' revived desire to buy caused the capital markets to reopen, making it cheap and easy
 for companies to obtain financing. Lenders' eagerness to put money to work enabled borrowers
 to pay low interest rates under less-restrictive documentation that reduced lender protections.
 • The paltry yields on safe investments drove investors to buy riskier assets.
 • Thanks to economic growth and plentiful liquidity, there were few defaults and bankruptcies.
 • The main exogenous influences were increasing globalization and the limited extent of armed
 conflict around the world. Both influences were clearly salutary.

As a result, in this period, the U.S. enjoyed its longest economic recovery in history (albeit also one of its
slowest) and its longest bull market, exceeding ten years in both cases.

When the Covid-19 pandemic caused much of the world's economy to be shut down, the Fed dusted off
the rescue plan that had taken months to formulate and implement during the GFC and put it into effect in
a matter of weeks at a much larger scale than its earlier version. The U.S. government chipped in with
loans and vast relief payments (on top of its customary deficit spending). The result in the period from
March 2020 to the end of 2021 was a complete replay of the post-GFC developments enumerated above,

including a quick economic bounce and an even quicker market recovery. (The S&P 500 rose from its
low of 2,237 in March 2020 to 4,796 on the first day of 2022, up 114% in less than two years.)

For what felt like eons - from October 2012 to February 2020 - my standard presentation was
titled "Investing in a Low Return World," because that's what our circumstances were. With the
prospective returns on many asset classes - especially credit - at all-time lows, I enumerated the principal
options available to investors:

 • invest as you previously have, and accept that your returns will be lower than they used to be;
 • reduce risk to prepare for a market correction, and accept a return that is lower still;
 • go to cash and earn a return of zero, hoping the market will decline and thus offer higher returns
 (and do it soon); or
 • ramp up your risk in pursuit of higher returns.

Each of these choices had serious flaws, and there's a good reason for that. By definition, it's hard to
achieve good returns dependably and safely in a low-return world.

Regular readers of my memos know that my observations regarding the investment environment are
primarily based on impressions and inferences rather than data. Thus, in recent meetings, I've been using
the following list of properties to describe the period in question. (Think about whether you agree with
this description. I'll return to it later.)

 Fed behavior Highly stimulative
 Inflation Dormant
 Economic outlook Positive
 Likelihood of distress Minimal
 Mood Optimistic
 Buyers Eager
 Holders Complacent
 Key worry FOMO
 Risk aversion Absent
 Credit window Wide open
 Financing Plentiful
 Interest rates Lowest ever
 Yield spreads Modest
 Prospective returns Lowest ever

The overall period from 2009 through 2021 (with the exception of a few months in 2020) was one in
which optimism prevailed among investors and worry was minimal. Low inflation allowed central
bankers to maintain generous monetary policies. These were golden times for corporations and asset

owners thanks to good economic growth, cheap and easily accessible capital, and freedom from distress.
This was an asset owner's market and a borrower's market. With the risk-free rate at zero, fear of
loss absent, and people eager to make risky investments, it was a frustrating period for lenders and
bargain hunters.

On recent visits with clients, I've been describing Oaktree as having spent the years 2009 through 2019
"in the wilderness" given our focus on credit and our heavy emphasis on value investing and risk control.
To illustrate, after raising our largest fund up to that time in 2007-08 and putting most of it to work very
successfully in the wake of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, we thought it appropriate, given the
investment environment, to cut the amount in half for its successor fund and halve it again for the fund
after that. Oaktree's total assets under management grew relatively little during this period, and the
returns on most of our closed-end funds, although fine, were moderate by our standards. It felt like a
long slog.

That Was Then. This Is Now.

Of course, all of the above flipped in the last year or so. Most importantly, inflation began to rear its head
in early 2021, when our emergence from isolation permitted too much money (savings amassed by people
shut in at home, including distributions from massive Covid-19 relief programs) to chase too few goods
and services (with supply hampered by the uneven restart of manufacturing and transportation). Because
the Fed deemed the inflation "transitory," it continued its policies of low interest rates and quantitative
easing, keeping money loose. These policies further stimulated demand (especially for homes) at a time
when it didn't need stimulating.

Inflation worsened as 2021 wore on, and late in the year, the Fed acknowledged that it wasn't likely to be
short-lived. Thus, the Fed started reducing its purchases of bonds in November and began raising interest
rates in March 2022, kicking off one of the quickest rate-hiking cycles on record. The stock market,
which had ignored inflation and rising interest rates for most of 2021, began to fall around year-end.

From there, events followed a predictable course. As I wrote in the memo On the Couch (January
2016), whereas events in the real world fluctuate between "pretty good" and "not so hot," investor
sentiment often careens from "flawless" to "hopeless" as events that were previously viewed as
benign come to be interpreted as catastrophic.

 • Higher interest rates led to higher demanded returns. Thus, stocks that had seemed fairly valued
 when interest rates were minimal fell to lower p/e ratios that were commensurate with higher
 rates.
 • Likewise, the massive increase in interest rates had its usual depressing effect on bond prices.
 • Falling stock and bond prices caused FOMO to dry up and fear of loss to replace it.
 • The markets' decline gathered steam, and the things that had done best in 2020 and 2021 (tech,
 software, SPACs, and cryptocurrency) now did the worst, further dampening psychology.
 • Exogenous events have the ability to undercut the market's mood, especially in tougher times,
 and in 2022 the biggest such event was Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
 • The Ukraine conflict reduced supplies of grain and oil & gas, adding to inflationary pressures.
 • Since the tighter monetary policies were designed to slow the economy, investors focused on the
 difficulty the Fed would likely have achieving a soft landing, and thus the strong likelihood of a
 recession.

 • The anticipated effect of that recession on earnings dampened investors' spirits. Thus, the fall of
 the S&P 500 over the first nine months of 2022 rivaled the greatest full-year declines of the last
 century. (It has now recovered a fair bit.)
 • The expectation of a recession also increased the fear of rising debt defaults.
 • New security issuance became difficult.
 • Having committed to fund buyouts in a lower-interest-rate environment, banks found themselves
 with many billions of dollars of "hung" bridge loans unsaleable at par. These loans have saddled
 the banks with big losses.
 • These hung loans forced banks to reduce the amounts they could commit to new deals, making it
 harder for buyers to finance acquisitions.

The progression of events described above caused pessimism to take over from optimism. The market
characterized by easy money and upbeat borrowers and asset owners disappeared; now lenders and buyers
held better cards. Credit investors became able to demand higher returns and better creditor protections.
The list of candidates for distress - loans and bonds offering yield spreads of more than 1,000 basis points
over Treasurys - grew from dozens to hundreds. Here's how the change in the environment looks to me:

 Fed behavior Highly stimulative Tightening
 Economic outlook Positive Recession likely
 Likelihood of distress Minimal Rising
 Mood Optimistic Guarded
 Buyers Eager Hesitant
 Holders Complacent Uncertain
 Key worry FOMO Investment losses
 Risk aversion Absent Rising
 Credit window Wide open Constricted
 Financing Plentiful Scarce
 Interest rates Lowest ever More normal
 Yield spreads Modest Normal
 Prospective returns Lowest ever More than ample

If the right-hand column accurately describes the new environment, as I believe it does, then we're
witnessing a complete reversal of the conditions in the middle column, which prevailed in 2021 and late
2020, throughout the 2009-19 period, and for much of the last 40 years.

How has this change manifested itself in investment options? Here's one example: In the low-return
world of just one year ago, high yield bonds offered yields of 4-5%. A lot of issuance was at yields in the
3s, and at least one new bond came to the market with a "handle" of 2. The usefulness of these bonds for
institutions needing returns of 6 or 7% was quite limited. Today these securities yield roughly 8%,

meaning even after allowing for some defaults, they're likely to deliver equity-like returns, sourced from
contractual cash flows on public securities. Credit instruments of all kinds are potentially poised to
deliver performance that can help investors accomplish their goals.

The Outlook

Inflation and interest rates are highly likely to remain the dominant considerations influencing the
investment environment for the next several years. While history shows that no one can predict inflation,
it seems likely to remain higher than what we became used to after the GFC, at least for a while. The
course of interest rates will largely be determined by the Fed's progress in bringing inflation under
control. If rates go much higher in that process, they're likely to come back down afterward, but no one
can predict the timing or the extent of the decrease.

While everyone knows how little I think of macro forecasts, a number of clients have asked recently
about my views regarding the future of interest rates. Thus, I'll provide a brief overview. (Oaktree's
investment philosophy doesn't prohibit having opinions, just acting as if they're right.) In my view, the
buyers who've driven the S&P 500's recent 10% rally from the October low have been motivated by their
beliefs that (a) inflation is easing, (b) the Fed will soon pivot from restrictive policy back toward
stimulative, (c) interest rates will return to lower levels, (d) a recession will be averted, or it will be
modest and brief, and (e) the economy and markets will return to halcyon days.

In contrast, here's what I think:

 • The underlying causes of today's inflation will probably abate as relief-swollen savings are spent
 and as supply catches up with demand.
 • While some recent inflation readings have been encouraging in this regard, the labor market is
 still very tight, wages are rising, and the economy is growing strongly.
 • Globalization is slowing or reversing. If this trend continues, we will lose its significant
 deflationary influence. (Importantly, consumer durables prices declined by 40% over the years
 1995-2020, no doubt thanks to less-expensive imports. I estimate that this took 0.6% per year off
 the rate of inflation.)
 • Before declaring victory on inflation, the Fed will need to be convinced not only that inflation has
 settled near the 2% target, but also that inflationary psychology has been extinguished. To
 accomplish this, the Fed will likely want to see a positive real fed funds rate - at present it's
 minus 2.2%.
 • Thus, while the Fed appears likely to slow the pace of its interest rate increases, it's unlikely to
 return to stimulative policies any time soon.
 • The Fed has to maintain credibility (or regain it after having claimed for too long that inflation
 was "transitory"). It can't appear to be inconstant by becoming stimulative too soon after having
 turned restrictive.
 • The Fed faces the question of what to do about its balance sheet, which grew from $4 trillion to
 almost $9 trillion due to its purchases of bonds. Allowing its holdings of bonds to mature and roll
 off (or, somewhat less likely, making sales) would withdraw significant liquidity from the
 economy, restricting growth.
 • Rather than be in a stimulative posture on a perpetual basis, one might imagine the Fed would
 prefer to normally maintain a "neutral interest rate," which is defined as neither stimulative nor
 restrictive. (I know I would.) Most recently - last summer - that rate was estimated at 2.5%.

 • Similarly, although most of us believe the free market is the best allocator of economic resources,
 we haven't had a free market in money for well over a decade. The Fed might prefer to reduce its
 role in capital allocation by being less active in controlling rates and holding mortgage bonds.
 • There must be risks associated with the Fed keeping interest rates stimulative on a long-term
 basis. Arguably, we've seen most recently that doing so can bring on inflation, though the
 inflation of the last two years can be attributed largely to one-off events related to the pandemic.
 • The Fed would probably like to see normal interest rates high enough to provide it with room to
 cut if it needs to stimulate the economy in the future.
 • People who came into the business world after 2008 - or veteran investors with short memories -
 might think of today's interest rates as elevated. But they're not in the longer sweep of history,
 meaning there's no obvious reason why they should be lower.

These are the reasons why I believe that the base interest rate over the next several years is more
likely to average 2-4% (i.e., not far from where it is now) than 0-2%. Of course, there are
counterarguments. But, for me, the bottom line is that highly stimulative rates are likely not in the cards
for the next several years, barring a serious recession from which we need rescuing (and that would have
ramifications of its own). But I assure you Oaktree isn't going to bet money on that belief.

What we do know is that inflation and interest rates are higher today than they've been for 40 and 13
years, respectively. No one knows how long the items in the right-hand column above will continue to
accurately describe the environment. They'll be influenced by economic growth, inflation, and interest
rates, as well as exogenous events, all of which are unpredictable. Regardless, I think things will
generally be less rosy in the years immediately ahead:

 • A recession in the next 12-18 months appears to be a foregone conclusion among economists and
 investors.
 • That recession is likely to coincide with deterioration of corporate earnings and investor
 psychology.
 • Credit market conditions for new financings seem unlikely to soon become as accommodative as
 they were in recent years.
 • No one can foretell how high the debt default rate will rise or how long it'll stay there. It's worth
 noting in this context that the annual default rate on high yield bonds averaged 3.6% from 1978
 through 2009, but an unusually low 2.1% under the "just-right" conditions that prevailed for the
 decade 2010-19. In fact, there was only one year in that decade in which defaults reached the
 historical average.
 • Lastly, there is a forecast I'm confident of: Interest rates aren't about to decline by another
 2,000 basis points from here.

As I've written many times about the economy and markets, we never know where we're going, but
we ought to know where we are. The bottom line for me is that, in many ways, conditions at this
moment are overwhelmingly different from - and mostly less favorable than - those of the post-GFC
climate described above. These changes may be long-lasting, or they may wear off over time. But in my
view, we're unlikely to quickly see the same optimism and ease that marked the post-GFC period.

We've gone from the low-return world of 2009-21 to a full-return world, and it may become more
so in the near term. Investors can now potentially get solid returns from credit instruments,
meaning they no longer have to rely as heavily on riskier investments to achieve their overall return
targets. Lenders and bargain hunters face much better prospects in this changed environment than

they did in 2009-21. And importantly, if you grant that the environment is and may continue to be
very different from what it was over the last 13 years - and most of the last 40 years - it should
follow that the investment strategies that worked best over those periods may not be the ones that
outperform in the years ahead.

That's the sea change I'm talking about.