Memo: Easy Money.

The backstory: I began writing these memos in 1990 and continued to do so for ten years despite
never receiving a single response. Then, on the first business day of 2000, I published bubble.com, a memo
with warnings about excesses in the tech sector that turned out to be timely. The inspiration for the
memo came from a book I'd read the preceding autumn: Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of
Financial Speculation, by Edward Chancellor, an account of speculative excesses starting with the South
Sea Bubble of the early 1700s. The book's description of behavior surrounding the mania for the South
Sea Company jibed with what I was seeing in the tech/media/telecom bubble that was underway. I
received excellent feedback on the memo from clients - encouragement that prompted the many memos
that have followed.

I consider it highly coincidental that 24 years later, I devoted another autumn to reading another
Chancellor book, The Price of Time: The Real Story of Interest, his history of interest rates and central
bank behavior. I thank Zach Kessler, a regular memo reader, for sending it. The relevance of The Price
of Time to the trends I've been discussing for the last year occasions this memo.

 * * *

In December 2022, I published Sea Change, a memo that primarily discussed the 13-year period from
the end of 2008, when the U.S. Federal Reserve cut the fed funds rate to zero to counter the effects of
the Global Financial Crisis, to the end of 2021, when the Fed abandoned the idea that inflation was
transitory and readied what turned out to be a rapid-fire succession of interest rate increases. The
memo concentrated on the impact that this lengthy period of unusually low interest rates had on the
economy, the financial markets, and investment outcomes. I followed this up with the memo Further
Thoughts on Sea Change, which Oaktree released to clients in May 2023 and to the public in October.
In the latter memo and subsequent conversations with clients, I've emphasized the significant impact
of low interest rates on the behavior of participants in the economy and the markets.

Easy Times

In Sea Change, I likened the effect of low interest rates to the moving walkway at the airport. If you walk
while on it, you move ahead faster than you would on solid ground. But you mustn't attribute this rapid
pace to your physical fitness and overlook the contribution from the walkway.

In much the same way, declining and ultra-low interest rates had a huge but underrated influence on the
period in question. They made it:

 • easy to run a business, with the stimulated economy growing unabated for more than a
 decade;
 • easy for investors to enjoy asset appreciation;

 • easy and cheap to lever investments;
 • easy and cheap for businesses to obtain financing; and
 • easy to avoid default and bankruptcy.

In short, these were easy times, fueled by easy money. Like travelers on the moving walkway, it was
easy for businesspeople and investors to think they were doing a great job all on their own. In particular,
market participants got a lot of help in this period as they rode the 10-year-plus bull market, the longest in
U.S. history. Many disregarded the benefits that ensued from low interest rates. But as one of the oldest
investment adages says, we should never confuse brains with a bull market.

As I've continued to think and talk about the switch from declining and/or ultra-low interest rates
to more normal, stable ones, I've emphasized the fact that low rates alter investor behavior,
distorting it in ways that have serious consequences.

Thinking about the change in interest rates sensitized me to media mentions of low rates, and I've noticed
many. This was particularly true following Silicon Valley Bank's meltdown last March, which many
articles attributed to faulty managerial decisions made "during the preceding period of easy money."
More recently, there's been much discussion of the less-favorable outlook for private equity, usually
related to expectations that interest rates aren't going to return to the low levels of the recent past.

The effects of low interest rates are multi-faceted and ubiquitous, yet frequently overlooked. I became
more conscious of them as I read The Price of Time, and I want to catalog them here:

 i. Low interest rates stimulate the economy

 Everyone knows that when central banks want to stimulate their countries' economies, they cut
 interest rates. Lower rates reduce costs for businesses and put money into the hands of
 consumers. For example, since most people buy cars on credit or lease them, lower interest rates
 make cars more affordable, increasing demand. The result is typically good for automakers, their
 suppliers, and their workers, and thus for the economy in general.

 It's important to realize that easy money keeps the economy aloft, at least temporarily. But low
 interest rates can make the economy grow too fast, bringing on higher inflation and
 increasing the probability that rates will have to be raised to fight it, discouraging further
 economic activity. This oscillation of interest rates between extremes can have effects and
 encourage behavior that natural/neutral rates (see p. 13) would be less likely to induce.

 ii. Low interest rates reduce perceived opportunity costs

 Opportunity cost is a major consideration in most financial decisions. But in low-interest-rate
 environments, the rate earned on cash balances is minimal. Thus, you don't forgo much interest
 by withdrawing money from the bank to buy a house or boat (or make an investment), which
 makes doing so seem painless. For example, if someone's thinking about taking $1 million out of
 savings for a purchase at a time when savings accounts pay 5% interest, they're likely to
 understand that doing so will cost them $50,000 per year in forgone income. But when the rate
 is zero, there is no opportunity cost. This makes the transaction more likely to occur.

 iii. Low interest rates lift asset prices

 In finance theory, the value of an asset is defined as the discounted present value of its future cash
 flows. We discount future cash flows when calculating present value because we must wait to

 receive them, so they're less valuable than cash flows received today. The lower the rate at which
 future cash flows are discounted, the higher the present value, as investors have noted for
 centuries:

 In the [18th] century, Adam Smith described how the price of land depended on
 the market rate of interest. In The Wealth of Nations (published in 1776) Smith
 noted that land prices had risen in recent decades, as interest rates declined. (The
 Price of Time, or "TPOT")

 By placing too low a discount on the future earnings of companies, investors [in
 the 1920s] ended up paying too much. (TPOT)

 In real life, investments are evaluated primarily on a relative basis. The return demanded on each
 investment is largely a function of the prospective returns on other investments and differences in
 these investments' respective levels of risk. Low interest rates lower the "relative bar,"
 making the higher returns offered on riskier assets appear relatively attractive even if
 they're low in the absolute.

 In this vein, The Price of Time describes the thought process that made "iffy" loans to the
 government of Argentina acceptable in the low-rate environment of the late 1880s:

 Buenos Aires "took advantage of the low rate of interest and the abundance of
 money in Europe to contract as many loans as possible, new loans often being
 made in order to pay the interest on former ones." Some Argentine loans paid as
 little as 5 percent - low in absolute terms or relative to their risk but still a
 couple of points above the measly yield on [consols, or perpetual British
 government debt] . . . (TPOT, emphasis added)

 When bond yields decline, bonds present less competition for riskier assets. Thus, low yields on
 bonds lead to lower demanded returns - and higher valuations - on other asset classes, such as
 equities, real estate, and private equity. For these reasons, low interest rates lead to asset
 inflation and sometimes asset bubbles like those we saw in late 2020 and throughout 2021.

 iv. Low interest rates encourage risk taking, leading to potentially unwise investments

 Low interest rates create a "low-return world" marked by paltry prospective returns on safe
 investments. At the same time, investors' required returns or desired returns typically don't
 decline (or they decline by much less), meaning investors face a shortfall. The ultra-low returns
 on safe assets cause some investors to take additional risks to access higher returns. Thus,
 these investors become what my late father-in-law called "handcuff volunteers" - they move
 further out on the risk curve not because they want to, but because they believe it's the only
 way to achieve the returns they seek.

 In this way, capital moves out of low-return, safe assets and in the direction of riskier
 opportunities, resulting in strong demand for the latter and rising asset prices. Riskier
 investments perform well for a while under these conditions, encouraging further risk
 taking and speculation:

 In his 1844 book On the Regulation of Currencies [banker John Fullarton]
 observed that at times of low interest, "everything in the nature of value puts on
 an aspect of bloated magnitude," and every article becomes an object of

 speculation. Long periods of easy money, wrote Fullarton, engender "a wild
 spirit of speculation and adventure." Fullarton noted that financial euphoria
 occurred after a period of falling interest rates: "From the Bubble year [i.e., the
 South Sea Bubble of 1720] downwards, I question much if an instance could be
 shown of any great or concurrent speculative movement on the part of capitalists,
 which had not been preceded by a marked decline of the current rate of interest."
 (TPOT)

 The risk-free rate is the point of origin, or jumping-off point, for returns and risk premia. When a
 central bank cuts the risk-free rate:

 • the rest of the yield curve usually follows;
 • the capital market line governing asset-class returns also shifts downward, especially if
 the desire for higher returns in the low-return environment causes riskier investments to
 be aggressively pursued as described above;
 • in addition to moving lower, the capital market line also can flatten, reducing risk premia,
 if investors are paying little heed to fundamental/credit risk; and
 • the liquidity premium - the increment in expected return for owning illiquid rather than
 readily saleable assets - can also shrink, as return-seeking investors embrace illiquid
 investments.

 In all these ways, the return increments associated with longer-term, riskier, or less-liquid
 assets can become inadequate to fully compensate for the increase in risk. Nevertheless, the
 low prospective returns on safe securities cause investors to look past these factors and
 lower their standards, encouraging speculation and causing questionable investments to be
 made in pursuit of higher returns:

 For [Austrian-school economist Friedrich] Hayek, it was axiomatic, but all too
 often overlooked, that "all economic activity is carried out through time." When
 interest rates decline, he said, businesses are inclined to invest in projects with
 more distant payoffs - in Hayek's terminology, the "structure of production"
 lengthens. If interest rates are kept below their natural level [see p. 13],
 misguided investments occur: too much time is used in production, or, put
 another way, the investment returns don't justify the initial outlay.
 "Malinvestment", to use a term popularized by Austrian economists, comes
 in many shapes and sizes. It might involve some expensive white-elephant
 project, such as constructing a tunnel under the sea, or a pie-in-the-sky
 technology scheme with no serious prospect of ever turning a profit. (TPOT,
 emphasis added; the quotation is from 1928)

 I'll provide a few examples of imprudent investments made during the recent easy money period:

 • In the low-return environment of 2017, Argentina once again became the poster child
 for questionable investment opportunities, when it offered 100-year bonds. As I asked at
 the time in my memo There They Go Again . . . Again (July 2017), "Is Argentina, a
 country that defaulted five times in the last hundred years (and once in the last five),
 likely to get through the next hundred without a rerun?" Argentina's checkered history
 as a borrower was ignored in the low-return environment, and the bonds were
 oversubscribed thanks to their having a yield of 7.85% at a time when 30-year Treasurys
 offered only 2.77%. It took less than a year for Argentina to request a loan from the
 International Monetary

 Fund and less than three years for it to default on the bonds. When the 100-year bonds
 were restructured in 2020, holders received new bonds with an expected recovery value
 of roughly 54.5 cents on the dollar, according to The Wall Street Journal of August 31,
 2020. Aptly, that same Journal article quoted Piotr Matys of Rabobank Group NV, as
 saying, "Treasury yields are so low, it's forcing investors into risk. That's why
 people are buying crazy stuff."
 • In the 2010s, investors eagerly snapped up leveraged buyout loans bearing historically
 low yields of around 6%. The buyers included CLOs, which are structured to give
 relatively high yields to the investors in their lower-rated tranches, as well as private
 credit lenders that levered up the prospective returns to roughly 9%.
 • While "zombie" companies that burn cash haven't historically been considered
 creditworthy, many were able to borrow easily in the pro-risk times through 2021. But as
 financial conditions have tightened, these companies have seen their cost to borrow rise
 and/or the amounts they can borrow shrink.
 • The craving for good returns in low-return times can enable scams. Theranos (the
 medical technology company) and FTX (the cryptocurrency exchange) were the most
 prominent examples in recent years. Such scandals are less likely to happen in times of
 economic and capital market stringency, when investors are less eager and more careful.

 Under easy-money conditions, long-dated bonds may appear particularly desirable; since the
 yield curve usually slopes upward, they typically offer higher yields. It should be noted,
 however, that long bonds are more rate-sensitive than short ones, meaning their prices change
 more in response to a given change in interest rates. As a result, the higher yields on more-
 volatile long bonds can attract capital in times of low rates, just when the odds usually favor a
 subsequent increase in yields (and thus a rapid decline in long bond prices).

 It seems to me that there's often a similar movement of capital toward "long stocks" when interest
 rates are low. By this I mean the stocks of companies believed to have many years of rapid
 growth ahead. For these companies, more of the projected cash flows are, by definition, in the
 distant future. Yet, investors may become more attracted to these stocks when rates are low
 because they want the higher returns that such rapid growth would bring, and there's less
 opportunity cost associated with the long wait for the relevant cash flows. (These sound like
 Hayek's "projects with more distant payoffs." See the quote on the previous page.) Just as the
 prices of longer bonds fluctuate more in response to a given change in interest rates, so-called
 "growth stocks" usually rise more than others in times of easy money and fall more when money
 dries up. The former was certainly the case in late 2020 and in 2021 . . . and the latter in 2022.

 I love Hayek's word "malinvestment," because of the validity of the idea behind it: in low-
 return times, investments are made that shouldn't be made; buildings are built that
 shouldn't be built; and risks are borne that shouldn't be borne. People with money feel they
 must put it to work, since cash yields little or nothing. They drop their risk aversion and, as
 discussed below, compete spiritedly for lending or investing opportunities with higher potential
 returns. The investment process becomes all about flexibility and aggressiveness, rather
 than thorough diligence, high standards, and appropriate risk aversion.

 Skimpy return prospects on safe assets lead to elevated risk taking - sometimes abetted by
 widespread optimism and/or the suspension of disbelief - and thus to the approval of investments
 that would likely be greeted with skepticism in normal times. Many of the risky assets people
 invest in out of presumed necessity are deemed less palatable and less valuable under tougher
 market conditions, when they can only be sold at lower prices.

 v. Low rates enable deals to be financed readily and cheaply
 Related to the above, low rates make people more willing to lend for risky propositions. Providers
 of capital vie to be the one who gets the deal. To compete for deals, the "winner" must be
 willing to accept low returns from possibly questionable projects and reduced safety, including
 weaker documentation. For this reason, it's often said that "the worst of loans are made at the
 best of times."
 The availability of capital fluctuates radically. Whereas in times of stringency, capital
 may not be available even to quality borrowers for valid purposes, in periods of easy
 money, capital typically becomes available to weaker borrowers, in large amounts, for
 almost any purpose. Things that couldn't be financed in tighter times are deemed
 acceptable.
 For one example, consider the shifting perception of high-tech companies. Prior to roughly
 2005, they were usually considered too undependable to be creditworthy, since outcomes for
 tech investments are generally asymmetric. If the company succeeds, the equity owners get
 rich. If it fails, there's little asset value for creditors to recover. But in the years following the
 tech/media/telecom meltdown of 2000-02, when interest in public equities declined and large
 sums flooded into private equity funds, tech companies began to be bought out, often with
 financing from the newly popular field of private credit.

 vi. Low interest rates encourage greater use of leverage, increasing fragility
 Borrowed money - leverage - is the mother's milk of rapid expansion and speculation. In my
 memo It's All Good (July 2007), I compared leverage to ketchup: "I was a picky eater when I
 was a kid, but I loved ketchup, and my pickiness could be overcome with ketchup." Ketchup
 got me to eat food I otherwise would have considered inedible. In much the same way,
 leverage can make otherwise unattractive investments investible. Let's say you're offered a
 low-rated loan yielding 6%. "No way," you say, "I'd never buy a security that risky at such a
 low yield." But what if you're told you can borrow the money to buy it at 4%? "Oh, that's a
 different story. I'll take all I can get." But it must be noted that cheap leverage doesn't make
 investments better; it merely amplifies the results.
 In times of low interest rates, absolute prospective returns are low and leverage is cheap.
 Why not use a lot of leverage to increase expected returns? In the late 2010s, money flowed
 to both private equity, given its emphasis on leveraged returns from company ownership, and
 private credit, which primarily provides debt capital to private equity deals. These trends
 complemented each other and led to a significant upswing in levered investing.
 But in the last decade, some companies acquired by private equity funds were saddled with
 capital structures that failed to anticipate the increase in interest rates of 400-500 basis-
 points. Having to pay interest at higher rates has reduced these companies' cash flows and
 interest coverage ratios. Thus, companies that took on as much debt as possible - based on their
 former levels of earnings and the prevailing low interest rates - may now be unable to service
 their debt or roll it over in a higher-rate environment.
 Finally, all else being equal, the more leverage that's piled on a company, the lower the
 probability it'll be able to survive a rough patch. This is one of the foremost reasons for the adage
 "never forget the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on
 average." Heavy leverage can render companies fragile and make it hard for them to get through
 the proverbial low spots in the stream. Take, for example, Signa, a large privately owned

 property company in Europe, which announced in November of last year that it was beginning
 insolvency proceedings:

 The decision to go all-out during the era of cheap money left Signa
 dangerously exposed to the sharp rise of interest rates this year. . . . And
 rising interest rates have hammered commercial property values across the
 market, reducing the value of the assets used to secure Signa's loans. (FT
 Asset Management Newsletter, December 11, 2023, emphasis added)

vii. Low interest rates can lead to financial mismatches

 Easy-money episodes make it particularly attractive to borrow short at low rates in order to make
 long-term investments or loans with higher prospective returns. This is the other classic reason
 why, in the investment world, proverbial six-footers often drown. (Investors with liability
 maturities that match the duration of their assets make it across the river much more regularly.)
 In tougher times, if lenders demand their money back or decline to roll over existing debt when it
 comes due, debtors can find themselves holding discounted or illiquid assets - just when cash is
 needed. This is a familiar theme that frequently marks the turn of the cycle from benign to nasty.
 Chancellor provides an example from 1866 in connection with the failure of Overend Gurney, a
 London broker:

 Lending against long dated and illiquid collateral was not a suitable business for
 Overend, which normally discounted three-month commercial paper financed
 with daily cash calls on the money market. The Times [of London] described
 how Overend had erred:

 A Discount Company which had forsaken the business of discount
 brokers for that of "financing", which had locked up its assets in
 securities promising to repay a high rate of interest, but incapable of
 conversion into cash on an emergency, had found its resources too
 limited to meet the calls upon them except at a ruinous sacrifice of
 its property, and had, therefore, suspended payment. (TPOT)

viii. Low interest rates give rise to expectations of continued low rates

 It's common for people to conclude that the environment they've lived through for a while is
 "normal," and that the future will entail more of the same. For this reason, people who have
 gotten used to low interest rates may think rates will always be low and make decisions based on
 that assumption. As a result, investor due diligence or corporate planning may assume that
 the cost of capital will remain low. This can become a source of trouble if rates are higher
 when financing is actually sought.

 For example, in recent months, I've noted a number of lots in midtown Manhattan that have been
 cleared for the construction of new buildings. Given the lengthy planning and approval process
 involved with such projects, these buildings were undoubtedly greenlit in the low-interest-rate
 environment that preceded 2022. Will they be built if the actual financing costs are higher than
 those that were assumed? Or will they be abandoned at significant cost?

 When the pandemic year of 2020 came to a close, the recovering economy, rallying stock market,
 and low interest rates put investors in a good mood, and there was widespread belief that the Fed
 would keep rates "lower for longer," supporting the economy and stock market for years to come.

 However, investors learned a lesson that has been repeated throughout financial history: catalysts
 for interest rate increases inevitably pop up, and thus perpetual prosperity and "the end of cycles"
 turn out to be nothing but wishful thinking. Consider another example from Chancellor:

 One of the aims of U.S. monetary policy in the 1920s was to dampen the
 seasonal fluctuations of interest rates caused by the agricultural cycle, which led
 to money being tight at certain times of the year. The Fed was so successful at
 this that Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon went so far as to hail an end to the
 cycle of boom and bust. "We are no longer the victim of the vagaries of business
 cycles. . . . As economist Perry Mehring writes [in The New Lombard Street]:
 "Intervention to stabilize seasonal and cyclical fluctuations produced low
 and stable money rates of interest, which supported the investment boom
 that fueled the Roaring Twenties but also produced an unstable asset price
 bubble." (TPOT, emphasis added)

 ix. Low interest rates bestow benefits and penalties, creating winners and losers

 Importantly, low interest rates subsidize borrowers at the expense of savers and lenders.
 Does it make sense to reduce the revenues of lenders so that investors can lever their investments
 cheaply?

 [In the mid-17th century,] Thomas Manley added that lowering the rate of
 interest would involve robbing Peter (the creditor) to pay Paul (the borrower).
 (TPOT)

 Doing so is a policy decision, or more likely the consequence of a decision to stimulate the
 economy. But it can have many other effects.

 When the rate of interest on savings is 4%, a retiree fortunate enough to have saved up $500,000
 will earn $20,000 per year on her bank balance. But when the interest rate on a savings account
 is near zero, as we saw for much of the last 14 years, she gets essentially nothing. Is it good for
 society to make her settle for zero? Or would it be better if she put the money into the stock
 market in an effort to make more?

 While discussing the ramifications of policy decisions, let's consider the impact of low rates on
 the distribution of income and wealth.

 . . . because assets like stocks and real estate are disproportionately held by
 the rich, ZIRP [the "zero interest-rate policy" that was introduced in
 December 2008] helped produce the largest spike in wealth inequality in
 postwar American history. From 2007 to 2019, . . . the wealthiest 1 percent of
 Americans saw their net worth increase by 46 percent, while the bottom half saw
 only an 8 percent increase. A report from McKinsey Global Institute, not exactly
 known as a bastion of economic populism, calculated that from 2007 to 2012, the
 Fed's policies created a benefit for corporate borrowers worth about $310 billion,
 whereas households that tried to save money were penalized by about $360
 billion. (The Atlantic, December 11, 2023, emphasis added)

 The yawning economic gap is one of the biggest problems the U.S. faces, and it's probably
 responsible for a fair bit of the extreme divisiveness we see every day in the media and in

 politics. A central bank's decision to set rates that subsidize some and penalize others
 clearly has consequences.

 x. Low rates induce optimistic behavior that lays the groundwork for the next crisis

 Elevated risk taking, underestimating future financing costs, and increased use of leverage
 often lie behind investments that fail when tested in subsequent periods of stringency,
 bringing on the next crisis and perhaps the need for the next rescue. In this way, excesses in
 one direction typically precede excesses in the other direction.

 In October 1889, the Governor of the Bank of England, William Lidderdale,
 delivered a stern warning to the City:

 The present tendency of finance . . . is distinctly in the direction of
 danger, too much capital is being forced into industrial
 developments, financiers are taking larger & larger risks in securities
 which require prosperity & easy money to carry without becoming a
 burden, & an increased number of investments have been driven up
 in price by the combined efforts of a long period of cheap money &
 depression in trade . . . we have most of the elements of a Crisis.
 (TPOT)

The Never-Ending Story

One of the quotes I return to most frequently is Mark Twain's purported observation that "history doesn't
repeat itself, but it often rhymes." For investors, cycles, along with their causes and effects, are among
the influential matters that invariably rhyme from one period to the next.

 Roughly 30 years ago - largely thanks to my involvement with my partner Bruce Karsh and his distressed
 debt funds - I became much more conscious of the importance of fluctuations in the availability and cost
 of money. Thus, I wrote as follows in my memo You Can't Predict. You Can Prepare. (November 2002):

 The longer I'm involved in investing, the more impressed I am by the power of the credit
 cycle. It takes only a small fluctuation in the economy to produce a large fluctuation in
 the availability of credit, with great impact on asset prices and back on the economy
 itself.

I reused that paragraph in my 2018 book Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side,
adding this:

 . . . the credit cycle can be easily understood through the metaphor of a window. In short,
 sometimes it's open and sometimes it's closed. And, in fact, people in the financial world
 make frequent reference to just that: "the credit window," as in "the place you go to
 borrow money." When the window is open, financing is plentiful and easily obtained,
 and when it's closed, financing is scarce and hard to get. . . .

In the book I made three foundational observations about cycles in general:

 • The events that make up each cyclical progression don't merely follow each other. Much
 more importantly, each event in the progression is caused by those that went before. This
 causality must be appreciated if one is to fully understand cycles and navigate them successfully.
 • Cyclical oscillation isn't best thought of as consisting merely of "ups and downs," but rather as
 (a) an excessive departure from the midpoint, secular trend or norm in one direction, and (b) a
 correction of that excess, which often ends up in (c) an excessive continuation of the correction in
 the opposite direction. "Excesses and corrections" is a much more useful way to think about
 cycles than "ups and downs."
 • Cycles don't have an obvious beginning and end. The only requirement for something to
 correctly be considered a full cycle is that it must include four components: (1) a movement from
 a norm to a high, (2) a move away from that high back toward the norm, (3) a move from the
 norm to a corresponding low, and (4) a movement from that low back toward the norm. Any of
 these can be labeled the start of a cycle, providing it goes on to include all four.

While there's no fixed point that represents the official start or end of a cycle, most economic cycles can
be described as follows. Notably, each step in the cycle causes the next.

 • First, stimulative rate cuts bring on easy money and positive market developments;
 • which reduce prospective returns;
 • which leads to willingness to bear increased risk;
 • which results in unwise decisions and, eventually, investment losses;
 • which bring on a period of fear, stringency, tight money, and economic contraction;
 • which leads to stimulative rate cuts, easy money, and positive market developments.

Here's an especially trenchant observation on the cyclical process:

 The Manchester banker John Mills commented perceptively [in 1865] that "as a rule,
 panics do not destroy capital; they merely reveal the extent to which it has
 previously been destroyed by its betrayal into hopelessly unproductive works."
 (TPOT, emphasis added)

As readers know, I believe investors can gain an advantage by studying cycles, understanding their
causes, and watching for excesses in one direction that are likely to lead to corrections in the opposite
direction. Walter Bagehot, the editor of The Economist in the 1860s, is described as having demonstrated
an exceptional understanding of cycles and cycle-related behavior:

 . . . our modern monetary mandarins never stop to consider Bagehot's warnings about the
 adverse consequences of easy money - how interest rates set at 2 per cent or less fuel
 speculative manias, drive savers to make risky investments, encourage bad lending and
 weaken the financial system. (TPOT)

What I so enjoy about Chancellor's books is the way they illustrate the tendency of financial history
themes to rhyme, as Twain would say, and thus how behavior that took place 200 or 400 years ago is
being repeated today and is sure to reappear again and again in the future. What he tells is a never-
ending story.

Easy Money Observed

The behavior brought on by low rates takes place in plain sight. Some people take note of it, and a subset
of them talk about it rather than let it pass unremarked. Fewer still understand its real implications. And
almost no one alters their investment approach to take them into account.

The low-rate period that immediately preceded the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09 was marked by the
kind of spirited competition to make investments and provide financing described above. It was in this
climate that Chuck Prince, then CEO of Citi, made the statement for which he is remembered:

 When the music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will be complicated. But as long as
 the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance. (July 14, 2007)

When money is easy, few people opt to sit out the dance, even though the adverse results described
above can reasonably be anticipated. When faced with the choice between (a) maintaining high
standards and missing deals and (b) making risky investments, most people will choose the latter.
Professional investment managers especially may fear the consequences of idiosyncratic behavior that's
bound to look wrong for a while. Abstaining demands uncommon strength when doing so means
departing from herd behavior.

And this gives me a great opportunity to reference one of my favorite quotations from John Kenneth
Galbraith's wonderful book on market excesses:

 Contributing to and supporting this euphoria are two further factors little noted in our
 time or in past times. The first is the extreme brevity of the financial memory. In
 consequence, financial disaster is quickly forgotten. . . . There can be few fields of
 human endeavor in which history counts for so little as in the world of finance. (A Short
 History of Financial Euphoria)

The lessons from past periods of easy money usually fall on deaf ears since they come up against (a)
ignorance of history, (b) the dream of profit, (c) the fear of missing out, and (d) the ability of
cognitive dissonance to make people dismiss information that is inconsistent with their beliefs or
perceived self-interest. These things are invariably enough to discourage prudence in times of low
interest rates, despite the likely consequences.

As you no doubt know, Charlie Munger passed away on November 28 at the age of 99. I want to pay a
small tribute to Charlie's life and wisdom by sharing something he wrote me in 2001: "Maybe we have a
new version of Lord Acton's law: easy money corrupts, and really easy money corrupts absolutely."

Will We Go Back to Easy Money?

Before I turn to the above question, I want to answer the one I'm asked most often these days: "Are you
saying interest rates are going to be higher for longer?" My answer is that today's rates aren't high.
They're higher than we've seen in 20 years, but they're not high in the absolute or relative to history.
Rather, I consider them normal or even on the low side.

 • In 1969, the year I started work, the fed funds rate averaged 8.2%.
 • Over the next 20 years, it ranged from 4% to 20%. Given this range, I certainly wouldn't
 describe 5.25-5.50% as high.

 • Between 1990 and 2000, which I would consider the last roughly normal period for rates, the fed
 funds rate ranged from 3% to 8%, suggesting a median equal to today's 5.25-5.50%.

So no, today's interest rates aren't high. Having disposed of that question, I'll move to the subject of this
section: the outlook for rates.

Many of my reasons for believing we're not going back to ultra-low rates are rooted in my thoughts on
how the Fed should think about the issue. But the Fed could decide to lower rates to stimulate economic
growth or reduce the cost of servicing the national debt, even if doing so might be deemed imprudent.
Thus, I have no idea what the Fed will do. But I'm sticking with the thinking that follows.

In my original Sea Change memo, I listed a number of reasons why we weren't likely to go back to ultra-
low interest rates anytime soon. The most salient are these:

 • Globalization has been a strong disinflationary influence, and it's likely on the decline. For this
 reason - and because the bargaining power of labor seems to be on the rise - I believe inflation
 may tend to be higher in the near future than it was pre-2021. If true, this will, all else being
 equal, mean interest rates will be kept higher to prevent inflation from accelerating.
 • Rather than be in a perpetually stimulative posture, the Fed may want to maintain the neutral rate
 most of the time. This rate, which is neither stimulative nor restrictive, has most recently been
 estimated to be 2.5%.
 • The Fed might want to get out of the business of controlling rates and let supply and demand set
 the price of money, which hasn't been the case for a quarter century.
 • Having had a taste of inflation for the first time in decades, the Fed might keep the fed funds rate
 high enough to avoid encouraging another bout. To control inflation, one would think the rate
 would need to be kept positive in real terms. If inflation will be, say, 2.5%, the fed funds rate
 would by definition have to be above that.
 • Perhaps most importantly, one of the Fed's essential jobs is to enact stimulative monetary
 policy if the economy falls into recession, largely by cutting rates. It can't do that effectively
 if the rate is already zero or 1%.

To this list, I would add a few more reasons for not returning to ultra-low interest rates, including the
tendency of easy money to (a) induce risk taking and "malinvestment"; (b) encourage increased use of
leverage; (c) produce asset bubbles; and (d) create economic winners and losers. Finally, cutting rates to
stimulative territory as soon as inflation hits 2% could cause it to reaccelerate. Instead, the plan
should be to get inflation to 2% and then keep rates at a level that is neither stimulative nor
restrictive.

After listing the above bulleted arguments against renewed low rates, I went on in Sea Change to say the
following (despite my strong aversion to predictions):

 These are the reasons why I believe that the base interest rate over the next several
 years is more likely to average 2-4% (i.e., not far from where it is now) than 0-2%.
 Of course, there are counterarguments. But, for me, the bottom line is that highly
 stimulative rates are likely not in the cards for the next several years, barring a serious
 recession from which we need rescuing . . .

Most people - other than lenders and savers - want low interest rates: people (and businesses) with
floating-rate mortgages and other debt, consumers in general, homebuilders, car and boat dealers, private
equity firms and their LPs, investors using leverage, and the people charged with paying the interest on

our national debt. But when you consider the reasons for not keeping rates permanently low, as
enumerated above, I think the economic merits favor setting rates low only as an emergency
measure to rescue the economy from prolonged or severe contractions.

When I attended graduate school at the University of Chicago, the leading intellectual light was
economist Milton Friedman, who argued strenuously that the free market is the best allocator of
resources. In this same vein, I'm convinced that so-called "natural" interest rates lead to the best overall
allocation of capital. This is why I so like Chancellor's decision to title his book The Price of Time.
That's what interest rates are: the price borrowers pay to rent lenders' money for a period of time.
Natural rates reflect supply and demand for money, and they're found at the intersection of (a) the price
suppliers of money ask for parting with it temporarily and (b) the price borrowers are willing to pay to use
it. Like Chancellor, I think it's clearly best when interest rates are naturally occurring.

 A consensus emerged among [17th-century] English practitioners of "political
 arithmetick" that interest - defined by one writer as "a Reward for forbearing the use of
 your own Money for a Term of Time agreed upon" - was much like any other price,
 whose level should be determined by buyers and sellers in the market, rather than
 government fiat. (TPOT)

 Even though it cannot be known with certainty, it is useful to hold in mind how the world
 would look if the natural rate held sway; . . . a rate that accurately reflects society's time
 preference; which ensures that we neither borrow too much nor save too little; which
 ensures capital is used efficiently, and puts an accurate value on land and other assets; a
 rate which provides savers with a fair return and is not so low as to subsidize bankers and
 their financial friends, nor so high as to bite borrowers. (TPOT)

Or as the central bank head of Germany said in 1927, a time when his counterparts in the U.S. and Great
Britain were arguing for easy money, "Don't give me a low rate, give me a true rate, and then I shall
know how to keep my house in order." (TPOT)

Natural rates seem to me to be related to but not quite the same thing as "neutral rates," which are rates
that are neither stimulative nor restrictive. Neutral rates are less likely than administered rates to be
super-high or super-low, and thus less likely to encourage extreme behavior. As Swedish economist Knut
Wicksell said in 1936:

 . . . if the rate of interest was too low, credit would expand rapidly, and inflation would
 appear. On the other hand, if the rate was kept too high, credit would contract and prices
 would decline. (TPOT)

In my view we haven't had a free market in money since the late 1990s, when I believe the Fed became
"activist," eager to head off problems real and imagined by injecting liquidity. Given that activism,
investors have become preoccupied with central bank actions and their consequences. For years, that's all
investors have talked about.

If I ran the Fed (to be clear, I don't expect to be offered the job), I think I would (a) lower rates to
stimulate the economy when it's growing too slowly to produce needed jobs; (b) raise rates to cool off the
economy when it's overheating, to head off rising inflation; and (c) keep my hands off rates the rest of
time, allowing market forces to determine their level. Under this construct, we certainly wouldn't see
rates perpetually near zero, as we did much of the time from 2009 to 2021. (I estimate the fed funds rate
averaged roughly 0.5% over that stretch).

Finally, what will we see moving forward? It now appears that sometime in 2024, the Fed will declare
victory against inflation and begin to reduce the fed funds rate from today's somewhat restrictive 5.25-
5.50%. The current "dot plot," which summarizes the views of Fed officials, shows three 25-bps rate cuts
in 2024, bringing the rate to 4.60%, and then more cuts in 2025, taking it to the mid-3s. However, today's
consensus thinking among investors seems to be considerably more optimistic than that, anticipating
more/earlier/bigger rate cuts.

While on the subject of consensus thinking, I'll point out the following:

 • Eighteen months ago, it was near-universally accepted that the Fed's aggressive program of rate
 increases would result in a recession in 2023. That was wrong.
 • Twelve months ago, the optimists who launched the current stock market rally were motivated by
 their belief that the Fed would pivot to dovishness and start cutting rates in 2023. That was
 wrong.
 • Six months ago, there was a consensus that there would be one more rate increase in late 2023.
 That was wrong.

I find it interesting that the current stock market rally began as a result of optimism powered by consensus
thinking that was generally off target. (See the second bullet point just above.)

At present, I believe the consensus is as follows:

 • Inflation is moving in the right direction and will soon reach the Fed's target of roughly 2%.
 • As a consequence, additional rate increases won't be necessary.
 • As a further consequence, we'll have a soft landing marked by a minor recession or none at all.
 • Thus, the Fed will be able to take rates back down.
 • This will be good for the economy and the stock market.

Before going further, I want to note that, to me, these five bullet points smack of "Goldilocks thinking":
the economy won't be hot enough to raise inflation or cold enough to bring on an economic slowdown.
I've seen Goldilocks thinking in play a few times over the course of my career, and it rarely holds for
long. Something usually fails to operate as hoped, and the economy moves away from perfection. One
important effect of Goldilocks thinking is that it creates high expectations among investors and thus
room for potential disappointment (and losses). FT Unhedged recently expressed a similar view:

 Yesterday's letter suggested that we think the market's current expectation of solid
 growth and six rate cuts seemed likely to be wrong in one direction or the other: either
 strong growth will limit the Fed to close to the three rate cuts it currently forecasts, or
 growth will be weak and there will be as many cuts as the market expects. In this sense,
 the market does look to be pricing in too much good news. (December 20, 2023)

I don't have an opinion as to whether the consensus described above is correct. However, even
granting that it is, I'll still stick with my guess that rates will be around 2-4%, not 0-2%, over the
next few years. Do you want more specificity? My guess - and that's all it is - is that the fed funds rate
will average between 3.0% and 3.5% over the next 5-10 years. If you think I'm wrong, ask yourself
whether you'd put your money on a different half-point range. (Before readers protest my
uncharacteristic descent into forecasting, I'll point out that, at Oaktree, we say it's okay to have opinions
on the macro; it's just not okay to bet clients' money on them. We invest with an awareness of current
macro conditions, but our investment decisions are always based on bottom-up analysis of companies and
securities, not macro forecasts.)

 * * *

The upshot of my sea change thesis is simple:

 1. The period from 1980 through 2021 was generally one of declining and/or ultra-low interest rates.
 2. This had profound ramifications in many areas, including determining which investment
 strategies would be the winners and losers.
 3. That changed in 2022, when the Fed was forced to begin raising interest rates to combat inflation.
 4. We're unlikely to go back to such easy money conditions, other than temporarily in response to
 recessions.
 5. Therefore, the investment environment in the coming years will feature higher interest rates
 than those we saw in 2009-21. Different strategies will outperform in the period ahead, and
 thus a different asset allocation is called for.

Bullet points one through three above are statements of fact and not controvertible. Consequently,
the conclusion - number five - depends exclusively on whether number four is correct. The
question is simple: do you agree with it or don't you? If you agree, we have a host of solutions to
propose.


Memo: The Indispensability of Risk.

Oftentimes, we're best able to understand something we're interested in through analogies that clarify the
matter by establishing connections between it and other parts of life. That's why I've written a memo
comparing investing to sports in each of the four decades I've been writing memos and one connecting
investing and card playing in 2020.

The motivation for this memo comes from an article in The Wall Street Journal of April 12 that my
partner Bruce Karsh sent me entitled "Chess Teaches the Power of Sacrifice" by Maurice Ashley, a chess
grandmaster who has been inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame. Few people know that Bruce is a
chess player, and I hadn't thought about this fact for years, but the article provided a good reminder and
moved me to dash off this memo.

As is obvious from the article's title, the piece is mostly about the role of sacrifice. Ashley says, "Many
positions cannot be won or saved without something of value being given away, from a lowly pawn all
the way up to the mighty queen." Intentionally losing a piece as part of one's gameplan is the sacrifice
that Ashley is referencing.

 • He describes some sacrifices as "shams," (a term coined by chess master Rudolf Spielmann in his
 book The Art of Sacrifice in Chess) where ". . . one can easily see that the piece being given up
 will return concrete benefits that can be clearly calculated." In other words, I put a piece in clear
 jeopardy, but I do this so that I'll be able to take one of yours of greater value.
 • Others are deemed "real" sacrifices, where ". . . giving away a piece offers gains that are neither
 immediate nor tangible. The return on investment might be controlling more space, creating an
 assailable weakness in the opponent's position, or having more pieces in the critical sector of
 attack."

The analogy to investing begins to become clear. Buying a 10-year U.S. Treasury note is a modest or
"sham" sacrifice. You give up the use of your money for ten years, but that's only an opportunity cost,
and accepting it brings the certainty of interest income. Most other investments involve real sacrifices,
though, where the risk of loss is borne in pursuit of "gains that are neither immediate nor tangible."

Ashley goes on to speak of sacrifice in risk/return terms that are familiar to investors. He describes his
mother's decision to leave him (at age two) and his two siblings in Jamaica and travel to the U.S. in
search of a better life for herself and for them. She reached her goal a decade later and was able to bring
her kids to the U.S., where they would find success in a variety of fields:

 It did not have to turn out that way. It did because she was willing to stomach the key
 aspect of making real sacrifices: the willingness to take risks. For a chess player, risk is
 as much intuited as it is calculated. Due to the inherent complexity of the game, it is
 virtually impossible to assess with certainty whether a risky move will pay off in the end.
 It's up to the player to decide if sufficient conditions have been met to take the
 chance on a risky move. . . .

 What we do know, however, is that the famous saying "No risk, no reward" is true in
 many cases. A skilled adversary is normally able to handle solid, conservative play and
 therefore able to rob us of opportunities that may be inherent in our position. As [five-
 time world chess champion] Magnus Carlsen put it, "Not being willing to take risks is an
 extremely risky strategy." (Emphasis added)

And there you have it: the indispensability of risk.

The Risk of Not Taking Risk

Because the future is inherently uncertain, we usually have to choose between (a) avoiding risk and
having little or no return, (b) taking a modest risk and settling for a commensurately modest return, or (c)
taking on a high degree of uncertainty in pursuit of substantial gain but accepting the possibility of
substantial permanent loss. Everyone would love a shot at earning big gains with little risk, but the
"efficiency" of the market - meaning the fact that the other participants in the market aren't dummies -
usually precludes this possibility.

Most investors are capable of accomplishing "a" and most of "b." The challenge in investing lies in the
pursuit of some version of "c." Earning high returns - in absolute terms or relative to other
investors in a market - requires that you bear meaningful risk - either the possibility of loss in the
pursuit of absolute gain or the possibility of underperformance in the pursuit of outperformance.
In each case, the two are inseparable. As Ashley says, no risk, no reward. No pain, no gain.

The risk inherent in not taking enough risk is very real. Individual investors who eschew risk may end up
with a return that is insufficient to support their cost of living. And professional investors who take too
little risk may fail to keep up with their clients' expectations or their benchmarks.

Like chess (and most card games), backgammon requires the calculation of when to take risk and when to
avoid it. In backgammon, two players move their checkers around the board based on throws of a pair of
dice. One player moves clockwise and the other counterclockwise. When players' checkers come near
each other, the player who's moving often has a choice between (a) landing on one of the other player's
checkers, sending it back to the start (but at the risk of leaving the moving checker in a vulnerable
position), and (b) avoiding doing so to play it safe. No one wants to be exposed and get hit. But most
beginners play it too safe, and because they put so much emphasis on avoiding getting hit, they rarely
win.

Relevant lessons from sports (included in past memos) are easily accessed and also very helpful:

 • "You miss 100% of the shots you don't take." - Wayne Gretzky, NHL Hall of Famer
 • "You have to give yourself a chance to fail." - Kenny "The Jet" Smith, two-time NBA champion

I'll sum up with a paragraph from my memo of last September, Fewer Losers, or More Winners?
The final sentence says a great deal about sacrifice and risk:
 . . . not having any losers isn't a useful goal. The only sure way to achieve that is by not
 such a thing as the risk of taking too little risk. Most people understand this
 intellectually, but human nature makes it hard for many to accept the idea that the
 willingness to live with some losses is an essential ingredient in investment success.

How to Think About Risk-Taking

The paradox of risk-taking is inescapable. You have to take it to be successful in competitive, high-
aspiration arenas. But taking it doesn't mean you'll be successful; that's why they call it risk.

Equally paradoxical, earning a high rate of return over a long time period doesn't have to - and usually
doesn't - connote a record of consistent success. More often it results from having made a lot of well-
reasoned investments, some subset of which worked out well. Here's how I described the basis for the
success of Berkshire Hathaway in Fewer Losers, or More Winners?:
 I believe the ingredients of Warren [Buffett]'s and Charlie [Munger]'s great performance
 are simple: (a) a lot of investments in which they did decently, (b) a relatively small
 number of big winners that they invested in heavily and held for decades, and (c)
 relatively few big losers. No one should expect to have - or expect their money
 managers to have - all big winners and no losers.
Investors must accept that success is likely to stem from making a large number of investments, all
of which you make because you expect them to succeed, but some portion of which you know won't.
You have to put it all out there. You have to take a shot. Not every effort will be rewarded with high
returns, but hopefully enough will do so to produce success over the long term. That success will
ultimately be a function of the ratio of winners to losers, and of the magnitude of the losses relative to the
gains. But refusal to take risk in this process is unlikely to get you where you want to go.

I'll conclude with another good paragraph from Ashley:

 Taking a chance doesn't mean there will be a successful outcome, nor does it require it.
 If the reasons are sound, the risk should be taken almost reflexively. The more often we
 trust our judgment, the more confidence we gain in our decision-making capacity. The
 courage to take risks becomes a worthwhile end in itself.

The bottom line on the quest for superior investment returns is clear: You shouldn't expect to make
money without bearing risk, but you shouldn't expect to make money just for taking risk. You
have to sacrifice certainty, but it has to be done skillfully and intelligently, and with emotion under
control.


Memo: The Impact of Debt.

My partner Bruce Karsh recently supplied me with a newspaper article about chess that inspired me to
write a brief memo called The Indispensability of Risk. The response to the memo was favorable,
hopefully because people found the content valuable, but quite possibly because it was only three pages
long versus the usual ten to twelve. Thus encouraged, I'm following up with another short memo.

One of my more interesting sources for readings on practical philosophy - including investment
philosophy - is the blog from the Collaborative Fund to which Morgan Housel, a fund partner, is a
regular contributor. As I read Housel's musings, I often find myself saying, "that's right in line with what
I think." And at other times, I say, as I hope others say after reading my memos, "I never thought of it
that way."

I found Housel's April 30 article, entitled "How I Think About Debt," particularly interesting. The
subject is the impact of debt on longevity, and it really boils down to a discussion of risk, one of my
favorite topics.

Housel starts by discussing the 140 businesses in Japan that are still operating more than 500 years after
they were founded and the few that are purportedly more than 1,000 years old.

 It's astounding to think what these businesses have endured - dozens of wars, emperors,
 catastrophic earthquakes, tsunamis, depressions, on and on, endlessly. And yet they keep
 selling, generation after generation.

 These ultra-durable businesses are called "shinise," and studies of them show they tend to
 share a common characteristic: they hold tons of cash, and no debt. That's part of how
 they endure centuries of constant calamities.

Clearly, all else being equal, people and companies that are indebted are more likely to run into trouble
than those that aren't. And it goes without saying that a home or car that hasn't been used as collateral for
a loan can't be foreclosed on or repossessed. It's the presence of debt that creates the possibility of
default, foreclosure, and bankruptcy.

Does that mean debt is a bad thing and should be avoided? Absolutely not. Rather, it's a matter of
whether the amount of debt is appropriate relative to (a) the size of the overall enterprise and (b) the
potential for fluctuations in the enterprise's profitability and asset value.

Housel frames the issue by introducing the idea of potential volatility over one's lifetime: "Not just
market volatility, but . . . world and life volatility: recessions, wars, divorces, illness, moves, floods,
changes of heart, etc." With no debt, he postulates, we're likely to survive all but the most infrequent,
most volatile events. But in a succession of illustrations, Housel shows that as the level of one's
indebtedness increases, the range of volatility one can withstand narrows, until at a very high level of
debt, only the tamest of environments are survivable. As Housel puts it, "as debt increases, you narrow
the range of outcomes you can endure in life."

Housel's approach to thinking about debt - and especially his illustrations - reminded me of my
December 2008 memo, Volatility + Leverage = Dynamite. (Unless otherwise indicated, this memo is the
source of the quotations that follow; in all cases, emphasis is in the original.) In that memo, I used a
series of simple graphics to show that the lower a company's debt load is, the greater the decline in
fortune it could survive. And I made the following observation about the root cause of the Global
Financial Crisis, which was in full force at the time of the memo:

 . . . the amount of borrowed money - leverage - that it's prudent to use is purely a
 function of the riskiness and volatility of the assets it's used to purchase. The more
 stable the assets, the more leverage it's safe to use. Riskier assets, less leverage. It's that
 simple.

 One of the main reasons for the problem today at financial institutions is that they
 underestimated the risk inherent in assets such as home mortgages and, as a result,
 bought too much mortgage-backed paper with too much borrowed money.

Portfolios, Leverage, and Volatility

The reason for taking on debt - i.e., using what investors call "leverage" - is simple: to increase so-called
capital efficiency. Debt capital is usually cheap relative to the expected returns that motivate equity
investments and thus relative to the imputed cost of equity capital. Thus, it's efficient to use it in lieu of
equity. In casinos, I've heard the pit boss say, "The more you bet, the more you win when you win."
Likewise, for a given amount of equity capital, (a) the more debt capital you use, the more assets
you can own and (b) the more assets you own, the greater your profits will be . . . when things go
well.

But few people talk about the downside. The pit boss never says, ". . . and the more you lose when you
lose." Likewise, when your assets decline in value, the more leverage you've employed, the more equity
loss you'll suffer.

The magnification of gains and losses stemming from leverage is typically symmetrical: a given amount
of leverage amplifies gains and losses similarly. But levered portfolios face a downside risk to which
there isn't a corresponding upside: the risk of ruin. The most important adage regarding leverage
reminds us to "never forget the six-foot-tall person who drowned crossing the stream that was five
feet deep on average." To survive, you have to get through the low points, and the more leverage you
carry (everything else being equal), the less likely you are to do so.

 . . . it's important to recognize the role of volatility. Even if losses aren't permanent, a
 downward fluctuation can bring risk of ruin if a portfolio is highly leveraged and (a) the
 lenders can cut off credit, (b) investors can be frightened into withdrawing their equity, or
 (c) the violation of regulatory or contractual standards can trigger forced selling.

Obviously, the greatest leverage-related losses occur when the potential for downward fluctuations has
been underestimated for a meaningful period of time and thus the use of leverage has become excessive.
Generally speaking, "normal levels of volatility" - those seen on a regular basis and documented through
historical statistics - are used in investors' calculations and reflected in the amounts of leverage they
employ. It's the isolated "tail events" that saddle levered investors with the greatest losses:

 The problem is that extreme volatility and loss surface only infrequently. And as
 time passes without that happening, it appears more and more likely that it'll never
 happen - that assumptions regarding risk were too conservative. Thus, it becomes
 tempting to relax rules and increase leverage. And often this is done just before the risk
 finally rears its head. As Nassim Nicholas Taleb wrote in Fooled by Randomness:

 Reality is far more vicious than Russian roulette. First, it delivers the fatal
 bullet rather infrequently, like a revolver that would have hundreds, even
 thousands of chambers instead of six. After a few dozen tries, one forgets
 about the existence of a bullet, under a numbing false sense of security . . .
 Second, unlike a well-defined precise game like Russian roulette, where the
 risks are visible to anyone capable of multiplying and dividing by six, one does
 not observe the barrel of reality. . . . One is thus capable of unwittingly playing
 Russian roulette - and calling it by some alternative "low risk" name.

 . . . In all aspects of our lives, we base our decisions on what we think probably will
 happen. And, in turn, we base that to a great extent on what usually happened in
 the past. We expect results to be close to the norm most of the time, but we know it's
 not unusual to see outcomes that are better or worse. Although we should bear in mind
 that, once in a while, a result will be outside the usual range, we tend to forget about the
 potential for outliers. And importantly, as illustrated by recent events, we rarely consider
 outcomes that have happened only once a century . . . or never.

Cycles in the Use of Leverage

In my second book, Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side, one of the longest
chapters, and probably the most important, is one I hadn't planned when I first sat down to write: "The
Cycle in Attitudes Toward Risk." Investor psychology has a dominant influence on the market in the
short run, and the attitudes that motivate investment decisions are often cyclical in nature, driving markets
to irrational extremes and then correcting in the opposite direction . . . to the opposite extreme.

Attitudes that govern the use of debt capital are examples of this cyclical process. When things have been
going well for a while - asset prices have been rising, investment returns have been positive, and the use
of leverage has paid off in the form of higher returns - investors view leverage as benign. As a result:

 • the favorable aspects of leverage become well-recognized,
 • the negative potential is overlooked,
 • investors become interested in employing more,
 • lenders become willing to provide more, and
 • regulations and mores governing the use of leverage tend to become more permissive.

But when events turn negative, this process goes into reverse. Leverage is penalized, not rewarded.
Thus, its use declines. And importantly, lenders provide less and try to demand repayment of outstanding
leverage if they can, leading to negative consequences for borrowers. In this way, as we so frequently
see, psychology often strays from the "happy medium" and moves toward extreme highs that presage
painful losses when extreme lows are reached.

The source of losses from excessive use of leverage might be best understood through an adaptation of
my favorite new quote, from Edward Chancellor's book The Price of Time, which I cited in this past

January's memo Easy Money:

 The Manchester Banker John Mills commented perceptively [in 1865] that "as a rule,
 panics do not destroy capital; they merely reveal the extent to which it has previously
 been destroyed by [the taking on of excessive leverage in good times]."

Using Debt Prudently

As with so many aspects of investing, determining the proper amount of leverage has to be a
function of optimizing, not maximizing. Given that leverage magnifies gains when there are gains and
that investors only invest when they expect there to be gains, it can be tempting to think the right amount
of leverage is "all you can get." But if you bear in mind (a) leverage's potential to magnify losses when
there are losses and (b) the risk of ruin under extreme negative circumstances, investors should usually
use less than the maximum available. Successful investments, perhaps enhanced by the moderate use of
leverage, should usually provide a good-enough return - something few people think about in good times.

Here's how I summed it up in Volatility + Leverage = Dynamite:

 Clearly, it's difficult to always use the right amount of leverage, because it's difficult to
 be sure you're allowing sufficiently for risk. Leverage should only be used on the basis
 of demonstrably cautious assumptions. And it should be noted that if you're doing
 something novel, unproven, risky, volatile, or potentially life-threatening, you
 shouldn't seek to maximize returns. Instead, err on the side of caution. The key to
 survival lies in what Warren Buffett constantly harps on: margin of safety. Using
 100% of the leverage one's assets might justify is often incompatible with assuring
 survival when adverse outcomes materialize. . . .

 The riskier the underlying assets, the less leverage should be used to buy them.
 Conservative assumptions on this subject will keep you from maximizing gains but
 possibly save your financial life in bad times.

The right way to think about debt may be best captured by one of the oldest maxims: "There are old
investors, and there are bold investors, but there aren't many old bold investors." Using a moderate
amount of borrowed capital balances the desire for enhanced gains against the awareness of the potential
negative consequences. It's only in this way that one can hope to attain the longevity of Morgan Housel's
500-year-old success stories.


Memo: The Folly of Certainty.

The impetus for my memos can come from a wide variety of sources. This one was inspired by an article
in The New York Times on Tuesday, July 9. What caught my eye were a few words in the sub-headline:
"She doesn't have any doubt." The speaker was Ron Klain, a former Biden chief of staff. The subject
was whether President Biden should continue to run for reelection. And the "she" was Jen O'Malley
Dillon, Biden's campaign chair. The article went on to quote her as having said, "Joe Biden is going to
win, period," in the days just before his June 27 debate against former President Donald Trump.

And, with that, I had the subject of this memo: not whether Biden will continue campaigning or
drop out - or whether he'll win if he continues - but rather how anyone can be without doubt. It'll
be another of my "shortie" memos given the uncertain shelf life of the Biden candidacy.

This choice of subject calls to mind another time I heard a highly credentialed person express absolute
certainty. In that case, an acknowledged expert in foreign affairs told a group I was part of there was "a
100% probability that the Israelis would 'take out' Iran's nuclear capability before year-end." He seemed
like a genuine insider, and I had no reason to doubt his word. Yet, that was 2015 or '16, and I'm still
waiting for "before year-end" to come around (in his defense, he didn't say which year).

As I indicated in my memo The Illusion of Knowledge (September 2022), there's no way a macro-
forecaster can produce a forecast that correctly incorporates all the many variables that we know will
affect the future as well as the random influences about which little or nothing can be known. It's for this
reason, as I've written in the past, that investors and others who are subject to the vagaries of the macro-
future should avoid using terms such as "will," "won't," "has to," "can't," "always," and "never."

Politics

When the 2016 presidential election rolled around, there were two things about which almost everyone
was certain: (a) Hillary Clinton would win but (b) if by some quirk of fate Donald Trump were to win, the
stock market would collapse. The least certain pundits said Clinton was 80% likely to win, and the
estimates of her probability of victory ranged upward from there.

And yet, Trump won, and the stock market rose more than 30% over the next 14 months. The response of
most forecasters was to tweak their models and promise to do better next time. Mine was to say, "if that's
not enough to convince you that (a) we don't know what's going to happen and (b) we don't know how
the markets will react to what actually does happen, I don't know what is."

Even before the much-discussed presidential debate of three weeks ago, no one I know expressed much
confidence regarding the outcome of the coming election. Today, Ms. O'Malley Dillon would likely
soften her position regarding the certainty of a Biden victory, explaining that she was blindsided by the
debate result. But that's the point! We don't know what's going to happen. Randomness exists.

Sometimes things go as people expected, and they conclude that they knew what was going to
happen. And sometimes events diverge from people's expectations, and they say they would have

been right if only some unexpected event hadn't transpired. But, in either case, the chance for the
unexpected - and thus for forecasting error - was present. In the latter instance, the unexpected
materialized, and in the former, it didn't. But that doesn't say anything about the likelihood of the
unexpected taking place.

Macro Economics

In 2021, the U.S. Federal Reserve held the view that the bout of inflation then underway would prove
"transitory," which it has subsequently defined as meaning temporary, not entrenched, and likely to self-
correct. I think the Fed might have been proved right, given enough time. Inflation might have retreated
of its own accord in three or four years, after (a) the Covid-19 relief funds that caused the surge in
consumer spending were spent down and (b) the global supply chain returned to its normal operations.
(However, not slowing the economy would have brought the risk that inflationary psychology might take
hold in those 3-4 years, necessitating even stronger action.) But because the Fed's view wasn't borne out
in 2021 and waiting longer was untenable, the Fed was forced to embark on one of the fastest programs of
interest rate increases in history, with profound implications.

In mid-2022, there was near certainty that the Fed's rate increases would precipitate a recession. It made
sense that the dramatic increase in interest rates would shock the economy. Further, history clearly
showed that major central bank tightening has almost always led to economic contraction rather than a
"soft landing." And yet, no recession has materialized.

Instead, late in 2022, the consensus among market observers shifted to the view that (a) inflation was
easing, and this would permit the Fed to start cutting interest rates, and (b) rate cuts would enable the
economy to avoid recession or ensure that any contraction would be mild and short-lived. This optimism
ignited a stock market rally in late 2022 that persists today.

And yet, the anticipated rate reductions in 2023 that undergirded the rally didn't transpire. Then, in
December 2023, when the "dot plot" of Fed officials' views called for three interest rate cuts in 2024, the
optimists driving the market doubled down, pricing in an expectation of six. Inflation's stubbornness has
precluded any rate cuts thus far, with 2024 more than half over. Now the consensus has coalesced around
the idea of a first cut in September. And the stock market keeps hitting new highs.

The optimists today would likely say, "We were right. Look at those gains!" But, regarding interest rate
cuts, they were simply wrong. For me, all this does is serve as another reminder that we don't know
what's going to happen or how markets will react to what does happen.

Conrad DeQuadros of Brean Capital, my favorite economist (how's that for an oxymoron?), has supplied
an interesting tidbit for this memo on the subject of economists' conclusions:

 I use the Philly Fed's Anxious Index (the probability of a decline in real GDP in the
 upcoming quarter) as an indicator that a recession has ended. By the time more than
 50% of the economists in the survey project a decline in real GDP in the coming
 quarter, the recession is over or close to being over. (Emphasis added)

In other words, the only thing worthy of certainty is the conclusion that economists shouldn't be
expressing any of it.

Markets

The rare person who in October 2022 correctly predicted that the Fed wouldn't cut interest rates over the
next 20 months was absolutely right . . . and if that prediction kept them out of the market, they've missed
out on a gain of roughly 50% in the Standard & Poor's 500 index. The rate-cut optimist, on the other
hand, was absolutely wrong about rates but is likely much richer today. So, yes, market behavior is very
tough to gauge correctly. But I'm not going to take time here to catalog the errors of market savants.

Instead, I'd like to focus on why so many market forecasts fail. The performance of economies and
companies might tend toward predictability given that the forces governing them are somewhat . . . shall I
say . . . mechanical. In these areas, one might say "if A, then B" with some degree of confidence.
Predictions here might, therefore, have some chance of being correct, albeit that's mostly the case when
trends continue unabated and extrapolation works.

But markets swing more than economies and companies. Why? Because of the importance and
unpredictability of market participants' psyches or emotions. Thanks to further help from Conrad
DeQuadros, I can illustrate the greater variability of markets, as follows:

 40-Year Standard Deviation of Annual Percentage Changes

Why is it that stock prices rise and fall so much more than the economies and companies that underlie
them? And why is it that market behavior is so hard to predict and often seems unconnected to economic
events and company fundamentals? The financial "sciences" - economics and finance - assume that
each market participant is a homo economicus: someone who makes rational decisions designed to
maximize their financial self-interest. But the crucial role played by psychology and emotion often
causes this assumption to be mistaken. Investor sentiment swings a great deal, swamping the short-run
influence of fundamentals. It's for this reason that relatively few market forecasts prove correct, and
fewer still are "right for the right reason."

 * * *

Today, pundits are making all sorts of predictions about the upcoming presidential election. Many of their
conclusions seem well-reasoned and even persuasive. We hear and read statements from those who
believe Biden should and shouldn't drop out; those who think he will and won't; those who think he can
win if he stays in the race; and those who think he's sure to lose. Obviously, intelligence, education,
access to data, and powers of analysis can't be sufficient to produce correct forecasts. Many of
these commentators possess these attributes, but clearly, they won't all be right.

Over the years, I've often cited the wisdom of John Kenneth Galbraith. It's he who said, "There are two
kinds of forecasters: those who don't know, and those who don't know they don't know." I find myself
using this quote all the time. Another of my favorite Galbraith quotes is from his book A Short History of
Financial Euphoria. In describing the reasons for "speculative euphoria and programmed collapse," he
discusses two factors "little noted in our time or in past times. One is the extreme brevity of the financial
memory." I often cite this factor, too.

But I don't remember ever writing about his second factor, which Galbraith says is "the specious
association of money and intelligence." When people get rich, others take that to mean they're smart.
And when investors succeed, it's often assumed their intelligence can lead to similarly good results in
other fields. Further, successful investors often come to believe in the strength of their own intellect and
opine about fields with no connection to investing.

But investors' success can be the result of a string of lucky breaks or a propitious environment, rather than
any special talents. They may or may not be intelligent, but often they don't know any more than most
others about subjects outside of investing. Nevertheless, many are unsparing with their opinions, and
those opinions often are highly valued by the general populace. That's the specious part. And today we
find some of them speaking with conviction on all sides of the issues related to the election.

A lot has been said about those who express certainty. We all know people we'd describe as "often wrong
but never in doubt." This reminds me of another of my favorite quotes, one that's attributed (perhaps
tenuously) to Mark Twain: "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know
for sure that just ain't so."

Back in mid-2020, when the pandemic seemed to have become a more or less understood phenomenon, I
slowed the pace of my memo writing from the one-a-week pattern of March and April. In May, I took
the opportunity for two non-Covid-related memos titled Uncertainty and Uncertainty II, in which I
devoted a significant amount of space to the subject of intellectual humility. While these memos were
on one of my favorite topics, they generated little response. So, I'll quote a bit from Uncertainty and
hopefully give you reason to look back at them.

 Here's part of the article that first brought the subject of intellectual humility to my
 attention:

 As defined by the authors, intellectual humility is the opposite of intellectual
 arrogance or conceit. In common parlance, it resembles open-mindedness.
 Intellectually humble people can have strong beliefs, but recognize their
 fallibility and are willing to be proven wrong on matters large and small.
 (Alison Jones, Duke Today, March 17, 2017)

 . . . To put it simply, intellectual humility means saying "I'm not sure," "The other
 person could be right," or even "I might be wrong." I think it's an essential trait for
 investors; I know it is in the people I like to associate with. . . .

 No statement that starts with "I don't know but . . ." or "I could be wrong but . . ." ever
 got anyone into big trouble. If we admit to uncertainty, we'll investigate before we
 invest, double-check our conclusions and proceed with caution. We may sub-optimize
 when times are good, but we're unlikely to flame out or melt down. On the other hand,
 people who are sure may dispense with those things, and if they're sure and wrong,
 as the Twain quote suggests, the outcome can be catastrophic. . . .

 . . . maybe Voltaire said it best 250 years ago: Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but
 certainty is absurd.

There simply is no place for certainty in fields that are influenced by psychological fluctuations,
irrationality, and randomness. Politics and economics are two such fields, and investing is another. No
one can predict reliably what the future holds in these fields, but many people overrate their ability and

attempt to do so nevertheless. Eschewing certainty can keep you out of trouble. I strongly
recommend doing so.

P.S.: Last summer's Grand Slam tennis tournaments provided the inspiration for my memo Fewer
Losers, or More Winners? Similarly, this past Saturday's women's final match at Wimbledon has
provided a snippet for this memo. Barbora Krejcikova prevailed over Jasmine Paolini to win the
women's
title. Before the tournament, bettors considered Krejcikova a 125-to-1 shot. In other words, they were
sure she wouldn't win. The bettors may have been right to doubt her potential, but it seems they
shouldn't have been quite so certain in making their predictions.

And speaking of the unpredictable, I can't fail to mention the recent attempt on Donald Trump's life, an
event that could well have had a more grave and impactful result. Even now that it has happened and
President Trump has escaped serious injury, no one can state with certainty how it will impact the
election (though at present it appears to bolster Trump's prospects) or the markets. So, if anything, it
reinforces my bottom line: making predictions is largely a loser's game.


Memo: Mr. Market Miscalculates.

In his book The Intelligent Investor, first published in 1949, Benjamin Graham, who was Warren Buffett's
teacher at Columbia Business School, introduced a fellow he called Mr. Market:

 Imagine that in some private business you own a small share that cost you $1,000. One
 of your partners, named Mr. Market, is very obliging indeed. Every day he tells you what
 he thinks your interest is worth and furthermore offers either to buy you out or to sell you
 an additional interest on that basis. Sometimes his idea of value appears plausible and
 justified by business developments and prospects as you know them. Often, on the other
 hand, Mr. Market lets his enthusiasm or his fears run away with him, and the value he
 proposes seems to you a little short of silly.

Of course, Graham intended Mr. Market as a metaphor for the market as a whole. Given Mr. Market's
inconsistent behavior, the prices he assigns to stocks each day can diverge - sometimes wildly - from
their fair value. When he's overenthusiastic, you can sell to him at prices that are intrinsically too high.
And when he's overly fearful, you can buy from him at prices that are fundamentally too low. Thus, his
miscalculations provide profit opportunities to investors interested in taking advantage of them.

 * * *

There's a great deal to be said about investors' foibles, and I've shared much of it over the years. But the
rapid market decline we saw in the first week of August - along with the rapid rebound - compels me to
pull together what I've said previously on the subject, along with some priceless investing cartoons from
my collection, and add a few new observations.

To set the scene, let's review recent events. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, soaring inflation, and
the U.S. Federal Reserve's rapid interest rate increases, 2022 was one of the worst years ever for the
combination of stocks and bonds. Sentiment reached its low around the middle of 2022, with investors
depressed by the universally negative outlook: "We have inflation, and that's bad. And the rate increases
to fight it are sure to bring on a recession, and that's bad." Investors could think of few positives.

Then the mood lightened and, late in 2022, investors coalesced around a positive narrative: the slow
economic growth would cause inflation to decline, and that would permit the Fed to start lowering rates in
2023, leading to economic vigor and market gains. A significant stock market rally began and continued
nearly uninterrupted until this month. Although the rate cuts anticipated in 2022 and 2023 still haven't
materialized, optimism has been in the ascendency in the stock market. The S&P 500 stock index rose by
54% (not counting dividends) in the 21 months which ended on July 31, 2024. That day, Fed Chair
Jerome Powell confirmed that the Fed was moving closer to a rate cut, and things appeared to be on track
for economic growth and further stock market appreciation.

But that same day, the Bank of Japan announced its biggest increase in its short-term interest rate in over
17 years (to a whopping 0.25%!). This shocked the Japanese stock market, to which people had been

warming for over a year. In addition, and importantly, the announcement played havoc with investors
who had engaged in "the carry trade." For years, Japan's infinitesimal - and often negative - interest
rates have meant that people could borrow cheaply in Japan and invest the borrowed funds in any number
of assets, there and elsewhere, that promised to return more, for a "positive carry" (aka "free money").
This led to the establishment of highly levered positions. It seems odd that a quarter-point increase in
interest rates could require some of these positions to be unwound. But it did, leading to motivated
selling in a variety of asset classes as those who had engaged in the practice moved to cut their leverage.

Starting the next day, the U.S. announced mixed economic news. On August 1, we learned that the
Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index had dipped and initial jobless claims had risen. On the other
hand, corporate profit margins continued to look good, and gains in productivity surprised to the upside.
A day later, we learned that employment gains had moderated, with hiring rising less than had been
expected. The unemployment rate stood at 4.3% at the end of July, up from a low of 3.4% in April 2023.
This was still very low by historical standards, but, according to the suddenly popular "Sahm Rule" (don't
complain to me; I'd never heard of it either), since 1970, an increase in the three-month average
unemployment rate of 0.5 percentage points or more from the low of the prior 12 months has never
occurred without the economy already being in recession. Around the same time, Warren Buffett's
Berkshire Hathaway announced that it had sold off a good part of its massive holding of Apple shares.

In all, this news constituted a triple whammy. The resulting flip-flop from optimism to pessimism set off
a significant stock market rout. The S&P 500 fell on three consecutive trading days - August 1, 2, and 5
- by a total of 6.1%. The replay of the mistakes I've witnessed for decades was so obvious that I can't
resist cataloging them below.

What's Behind the Market's Volatility?

On the first two days of August, I was in Brazil, where people often asked me to explain the sudden
collapse. I referred them to my 2016 memo On the Couch. Its key observation was that in the real
world, things fluctuate between 'pretty good' and 'not so hot,' but in investing, perception often
swings from 'flawless' to 'hopeless.' That says about 80% of what you need to know on the subject.

If reality changes so little, why do estimates of value (that's what security prices are supposed to be)
change so much? The answer has a lot to do with changes in mood. I wrote over 33 years ago, in only
my second memo:

 The mood swings of the securities markets resemble the movement of a pendulum. . . .
 between euphoria and depression, between celebrating positive developments and
 obsessing over negatives, and thus between overpriced and underpriced. This oscillation
 is one of the most dependable features of the investment world, and investor
 psychology seems to spend much more time at the extremes than it does at a "happy
 medium." (First Quarter Performance, April 1991)

Mood swings do a lot to alter investors' perception of events, causing prices to fluctuate madly. When
prices collapse as they did at the start of this month, it's not because conditions have suddenly become
bad. Rather, they become perceived as bad. Several factors contribute to this process:

 • heightened awareness of things on one side of the emotional ledger,
 • a tendency to overlook things on the other side, and
 • similarly, a tendency to interpret things in a way that fits the prevailing narrative.

What this means is that in good times, investors obsess about the positives, ignore the negatives, and
interpret things favorably. Then, when the pendulum swings, they do the opposite, with dramatic
effects.

One important idea underpinning economics is the theory of rational expectations, described by
Investopedia as follows:

 The rational expectations theory . . . posits that individuals base their decisions on three
 primary factors: their human rationality, the information available to them, and their past
 experiences.

If security prices were really the result of the rational, dispassionate evaluation of data, presumably one
piece of negative information would move the market down a little, and the next such piece would move
it down a bit more, and so forth. But instead, we see that an optimistic market is capable of ignoring
individual pieces of bad news until a critical mass of bad news builds up, at which time a tipping point is
reached, the optimists surrender, and a rout begins. Rudiger Dornbush's great quote about economics is
highly applicable here: ". . . things take longer to happen than you think they will, and then they happen
faster than you thought they could." Or as my partner Sheldon Stone says, "The air goes out of the
balloon much faster than it went in."

The non-linear nature of this process suggests something very different from rationality is at work. In
particular, as in many other aspects of life, cognitive dissonance plays a big part in investors' psyches.
The human brain is wired to ignore or reject incoming data that is at odds with prior beliefs, and
investors are particularly good at this.

While we're on the subject of irrationality, I've been waiting for an opportunity to share the following
screenshot from June 13, 2022:

This was a tough day in the markets: interest rates were rising thanks to the actions of the Fed and other
central banks, and asset prices were under significant pressure as a result. But take a look at the table.
Every country's equity index was down significantly. Every currency was down relative to the dollar.
Every commodity was down. Only one thing was up: bond yields . . . meaning bond prices were down,
too. Wasn't there one asset or country whose value didn't decline that day? What about gold, which is
supposed to do well in difficult times? My point here is that, during big market moves, no one performs
rational analysis or makes distinctions. They just throw out the baby with the bathwater, primarily
because of psychological swings. As the old saying goes, "in times of crisis, all correlations go to 1."

Further, the data in the table exhibit an additional phenomenon that's often present during extreme moves:
contagion. Something goes wrong in the U.S. market. European investors take that as a sign of trouble,
so they sell. Asian investors detect that something negative is afoot, so they sell overnight. And when
U.S. investors come in the next morning, they're spooked by the negative developments in Asia, which
confirm their pessimistic inclinations, so they sell. This is a lot like the game of telephone we played
when I was little: the message may be miscommunicated as it's passed down the chain, but it still
encourages ill-founded actions.

When psychology is swinging radically, meaningless statements can be given weight. Thus, during the
three-day decline earlier this month, it was observed that foreigners sold more Japanese stocks than they
bought, and investors reacted as if this meant something. But if foreigners sold on balance, Japanese
investors must have bought on balance. Should either of these phenomena be treated as more significant
than the other? If so, which one?

Further complicating things in terms of rational analysis is the fact that most developments in the
investment world can be interpreted both positively and negatively, depending on the prevailing
mood.

Another classic cartoon sums up this ambiguity in fewer words. It's highly applicable to the market
tremor that inspired this memo.

One more source of miscalculation is investors' tendency toward optimism and wishful thinking.
Investors in general - and equity investors in particular - must, by definition, be optimists. Who other
than people with positive expectations (and/or a strong desire for increased wealth) would be willing to
part with money today based on the possibility of getting back more in the future?

Charlie Munger, Warren Buffett's late partner, routinely quoted the ancient Greek statesman
Demosthenes, who said, "Nothing is easier than self-deceit. For what each man wishes, that he also
believes to be true." One great example is "Goldilocks thinking": the belief that the economy will be
neither strong enough to bring on inflation nor weak enough to lapse into recession. Things sometimes
work out that way - as may be the case right now - but not nearly as often as investors posit.
Expectations that incline toward the positive encourage aggressive behavior on the part of investors. And
if this behavior is rewarded in good times, still more aggressiveness usually ensues. Rarely do investors
realize that (a) there can be a limit to the run of good news or (b) an upswing can be so strong as to
be excessive, rendering a downswing inevitable.

For years, I quoted Buffett as having warned investors to temper their enthusiasm: "When investors lose
track of the fact that corporate profits grow at 7% on average, they tend to get into trouble." In other
words, if corporate profit growth averages 7%, shouldn't investors begin to worry if stocks appreciate by
20% a year for a while (as they did throughout the 1990s)? I thought it was such a good quote that I
asked Buffett when he said it. Unfortunately, he answered that he hadn't. But I still think it's an
important warning.

That inaccurate recollection reminds me of John Kenneth Galbraith's trenchant reference to one of the
most important causes of financial euphoria: "the extreme brevity of the financial memory." It's this trait
that allows optimistic investors to engage in aggressive behavior, untroubled by knowledge of what such
behavior led to in the past. Further, it makes it easy for investors to forget past errors and invest blithely
on the basis of the newest miraculous development.

Finally, the investment world might be less unstable if there were immutable rules - like the one
governing gravity - that could be counted on to always produce the same results. But there are no such
rules, since markets aren't built on natural laws, but rather the shifting sands of investor
psychology.

For example, there's a long-running adage that says we should "buy on rumor and sell on news." That is,
the introduction of favorable expectations is a buy signal, because expectations often continue to rise.
That ends when the news arrives, however, because the impetus for gains has been realized and no further
good news remains to take the market higher. But in the carefree environment of a month ago, I told my
partner Bruce Karsh that maybe the prevailing attitude had become "buy on rumor and buy on news." In
other words, investors were acting as though it was always a good time to buy. Rationally, one shouldn't
price in the possibility of a favorable event twice: both when the possibility of the event is introduced and
when the event occurs. But euphoria can get the better of people.

Another example of the absence of meaningful guidelines can be seen in this excerpt from one of the
oldest clippings in my file:

 A continuing pattern of consolidation and group rotation suggests that increasing
 emphasis should be placed on buying stocks on relative weakness and selling them on
 relative strength. This would be a marked contrast to some earlier periods where
 emphasizing relative strength proved to be effective. (Loeb, Rhoades & Co., 1976)

In short, sometimes the things that have gone up the most should be expected to continue to go up
the most, and sometimes the things that have gone up the least should be expected to go up the
most. To which many of you might respond "duh." Bottom line: there are few effective rules for
investors to follow. Superior investing always comes down to skillful analysis and superior insight, not
adherence to formulas and guidelines.

 * * *

Volatile psychology, skewed perception, overreaction, cognitive dissonance, rapid-fire contagion,
irrationality, wishful thinking, forgetfulness, and the lack of dependable principles. That's quite a
laundry list of ills. Together, they constitute the main cause of extreme market highs and lows and are
responsible for the volatile swings between them. Ben Graham said that, in the long run, the market is a
weighing machine that assesses the merit of each asset and assigns an appropriate price. But in the short
term, it's merely a voting machine, and the investor sentiment that moves it swings wildly, incorporating
little rationality and assigning daily prices that often reflect little in terms of intelligence.

Rather than try to reinvent the wheel, I'll repeat some of what I've said in two past memos:

 Especially during downdrafts, many investors impute intelligence to the market and look
 to it to tell them what's going on and what to do about it. This is one of the biggest
 mistakes you can make. As Ben Graham pointed out, the day-to-day market isn't a
 fundamental analyst; it's a barometer of investor sentiment. You just can't take it
 too seriously. Market participants have limited insight into what's really happening in
 terms of fundamentals, and any intelligence that could be behind their buys and sells is
 obscured by their emotional swings. It would be wrong to interpret the recent
 worldwide drop as meaning the market "knows" tough times lay ahead. (It's Not Easy,
 September 2015)

 My bottom line is that markets don't assess intrinsic value from day to day, and certainly
 they don't do a good job during crises. Thus, market price movements don't say much
 about fundamentals. Even in the best of times, when investors are driven by
 fundamentals rather than psychology, markets show what the participants think
 value is, rather than what value really is. Value is something the market doesn't know
 any more about than the average investor. And advice from the average investor
 obviously can't help you be an above average investor.

 Fundamentals - the outlook for an economy, company or asset - don't change much from
 day to day. As a result, daily price changes are mostly about (a) changes in market
 psychology and thus (b) changes in who wants to own something or un-own
 something. These two statements become increasingly valid the more daily prices
 fluctuate. Big fluctuations show that psychology is changing radically. (What Does
 the Market Know?, January 2016)

The market fluctuates at the whim of its most volatile participants: those who are willing (a) to buy
at a big premium to the former price when the news is good and enthusiasm is riding high and (b)
to sell at a big discount from the former price when the news is bad and pessimism is rampant.
Thus, as I wrote in On the Couch, every once in a while, the market needs a trip to the shrink.

It's important to note that, as my partner John Frank points out, in comparison to the total number who
own each company, it takes relatively few people to drive prices up during bubbles or down during
crashes. When shares in a company that was worth $10 billion a month ago trade at prices implying a
valuation of $12 billion or $8 billion, it doesn't mean the whole company would change hands at these
prices; just a tiny sliver. Regardless, a few emotional investors can move prices much more than
should be the case.

The worst thing you can do is join in when other investors go off on these irrational jags. It's far better to
watch with bemusement from the sidelines, buttressed by an understanding of how markets work. But
better still to see Mr. Market's overreactions for what they are and accommodate him, selling to
him when he's eager to buy regardless of how high the price is, and buying from him when he
desperately wants out. Here's how Ben Graham followed the introduction of Mr. Market that I included
on page 1:

 If you are a prudent investor or a sensible businessman will you let Mr. Market's daily
 communication determine your view of the value of your $1,000 interest in the
 enterprise? Only in case you agree with him, or in case you want to trade with him. You
 may be happy to sell out to him when he quotes you a ridiculously high price, and equally
 happy to buy from him when his price is low. But the rest of the time you will be wiser
 to form your own ideas of the value of your holdings, based on full reports from the
 company about its operations and financial position.

In other words, it's the primary job of the investor to take note when prices stray from intrinsic value and
figure out how to act in response. Emotion? No. Analysis? Yes.


Memo: Shall We Repeal the Laws of Economics?.

For months, I've been saving up clippings for a memo on the above topic, but favorite subjects such as
risk, debt, and uncertainty repeatedly jumped the queue, delaying my intended memo until the U.S.
election season got into full swing, making it compelling.

Like me, you've undoubtedly noticed that politicians ranging from former President Trump and Vice
President Harris to down-ballot candidates are back to making promises that ignore economic reality.
Trump's call for tariffs and Harris's attack on grocery profiteering are merely two examples of proposals
that would impose costs the candidate ignores (in Trump's case) or that fail to reflect a meaningful
understanding of the problem (in Harris's case). My purpose, of course, is not to promote or dismiss
either candidate, but rather to illustrate that there is no "free lunch" in economics, despite candidates'
assertions to the contrary.

The Background

In 2016, with an unusually clamorous presidential election in full swing, I published two memos
that strayed from investing into the world at large, called Economic Reality and Political Reality.
The first explained that economics is largely the study of how we make choices - how people
allocate finite resources among the available options. The second stated that in politics - and especially
in the land of campaign promises - there's no such thing as finiteness. As I wrote in Political Reality:

 I've always gotten a kick out of oxymorons - phrases that are internally contradictory -
 such as "jumbo shrimp" and "common sense." I'll add "political reality" to the list. The
 world of politics has its own, altered reality, in which economic reality often seems not to
 impinge. No choices need be made: candidates can promise it all. And there are no
 consequences. If something might have negative consequences in the real world,
 politicians seem to feel free to ignore them.

I followed those two memos with one in 2019 entitled Political Reality Meets Economic Reality. Its
main thrust was that politicians can promise whatever they want regarding the economy, but they
won't be able to deliver if their promises fly in the face of economic reality because, ultimately, the
laws of economics are incontrovertible. Free economies are driven by self-interested decisions made
by millions of producers and consumers, employers and employees, and savers and investors.
Governments can pass laws designed to encourage or even compel behavior, but in general they
can't mandate economic outcomes. There are so many moving pieces and second-order
consequences that governments generally can't engineer both prosperity and the specific economic
outcomes that policymakers may seek.

History is littered with command economies that didn't succeed. There's proof for this that includes the
"control group" required by the scientific method. Eighty years ago, Korea was a single country. Then,
following World War II, it was split in two, obviously with similar people, geography and resources:
South Korea (under U.S. influence), and North Korea (under Soviet influence). Since then, South Korea
has operated as a capitalist democracy and North Korea as a communist dictatorship. There's little

reliable economic data regarding North Korea, but according to the CIA's Worldbook, its GDP in
purchasing power terms is estimated at $2,000 per person versus $50,000 in South Korea. North Korea's
citizens are described as impoverished, but at least it doesn't have a border problem, since nobody's
trying to sneak in. There are political differences (democracy versus dictatorship) in addition to the
economic ones, but I think it's fair to say capitalism has won.

In discussions of economic systems, I usually ask people what they think has been responsible for the
economic preeminence the U.S. has enjoyed since the end of World War I, and thus for its citizens' higher
average standard of living. Are Americans smarter? Harder working? More deserving? None of the
above. I'm confident it's because of our historical embrace of the free-market system and capitalism.

The incentives provided by free markets efficiently direct capital and other resources where they'll
be most productive. They prompt producers to make the goods people want most and workers to
take the jobs where they'll be most productive in terms of the value of their output. And they
encourage hard work and risk taking. The result is a higher standard of living for society in general,
but certainly not everyone benefits to the same degree. Thanks to the way incentives interact with
people's different abilities, some people do considerably better than others. Some also prosper thanks to
good luck and/or inherited advantage, rather than innate ability. The free-market system doesn't
necessarily produce "fair" outcomes in all circumstances, but economic systems designed to do so
generally don't provide the incentives needed to encourage economic productivity for the collective
good. That's what accounts for their record of failure.

On August 15, the media reported that the next day, Vice President Harris would announce her economic
policies. The bulk of the attention went to her promise to ban price gouging in the grocery industry.
special initiatives at the Roosevelt Institute, a left-leaning think tank" (The Washington Post, August 15),
and many voters say inflation is their greatest concern. For this combination of reasons, Harris's targeting
of grocery prices is entirely predictable. (Ironically, August 15 was also the day U.S. inflation was
reported to have fallen below 3% for the first time since March 2021.) I'm certain, however, that this
falls under the heading of simplistic economic solutions that are designed to appeal to voters but are
unsoundly based and likely to fail.

What Is Price Gouging?

Price gouging is generally defined as sellers taking advantage of market power or temporary
supply/demand imbalances to raise prices to levels that otherwise wouldn't prevail. And food prices
did rise significantly in 2021 and 2022, leading to suspicion of food retailers. But might there be reasons
for the price increases other than a malevolent decision to gouge on the part of sellers? Here are a few
possibilities:

 • When the pandemic began in March 2020, most people stayed home and cooked their own meals,
 significantly increasing the demand for groceries and depleting inventories.
 • The production system was disrupted, with inputs in short supply or in the wrong places relative
 to the needs. This led to the much-discussed "supply-chain problems." Too few goods - when
 coupled with too much money chasing them - constitute the classic reason for inflation.
 • The federal government sent taxpayers massive amounts of Covid-19 relief. Many more people
 received benefits than had been hurt financially by the pandemic. Those people came out ahead,
 capturing trillions of dollars for future spending.

 • When the Delta variant of Covid popped up in mid-2021, people again stayed home and shrunk
 from contact with others, spending more on goods and less on services than they otherwise might
 have. Demand for goods was strong as a result, outstripping the limited supplies and causing
 prices to rise.

Profit margins in the supermarket industry are low - about 1% to 2% of sales - and that changed only a
little in 2021-22. So, was there gouging? And if gouging is the explanation for the price increases, why
did it occur in those years, rather than sooner? Again, might today's high prices be explained by
something other than gouging? The New York Times, rarely a defender of capitalism, wrote the following
on August 15:

 Researchers from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City reported last year that rapid
 job growth in the U.S. economy, and the wage increases that came with it, were major
 contributors to rising grocery prices.

A number of factors contributed to the increase in food prices, many of them linked to the macro
economy. But the bottom line is that conditions allowed food sellers to raise prices, and they did so.

Is Raising Prices Wrong?

The above is the key question. Definitions of price gouging invariably include words like "unfair,"
"excessive," and "exorbitant." These are subjective terms that are open to judgment and debate.
The propriety of behavior with regard to these words is usually in the eye of the beholder. The seller's
highly reasonable price increase is the customer's gouging. The difficulty of defining gouging reminds
me of those who say, "we're not out to soak the rich; we just want to make them pay their fair share in
taxes." I'm far from saying the rich shouldn't pay their "fair share," but what's the standard for a fair
share, and who gets to set it? In the same way, who determines whether prices are fair, and how?

When a supermarket raises the price of a necessity like bread, is that gouging? The answer is that it's
complicated, and that's what makes it hard to regulate prices fairly.

 • If the farmer pays more for fertilizer and labor and then charges the baker more for wheat, can the
 baker fairly pass that on to the supermarket in the form of a higher price for bread?
 • If the baker raises the price he charges the supermarket for bread, is it wrong for the supermarket
 to pass on the increase to the consumer?
 • If the supermarket's employees demand higher pay, can it offset the increase by raising the prices
 of the things it sells?
 • If demand increases because a hit TV show popularizes sandwiches, is it wrong for people in the
 supply chain to take advantage and charge more for bread?

In a free market, prices are determined by supply and demand. Is it wrong per se for providers of goods
and services to raise prices in response to reduced supply or increased demand? A few examples should
make clear the complex nature of this question.

 • Uber applies "surge pricing" during rush hour, when more people want rides. Is that an unfair
 practice? If the government says Uber mustn't do so, that will make rides available at prices
 below what some people would pay and deprive drivers of the full fare they could otherwise
 collect. And the rate the drivers would then receive might not be high enough to justify the time

 they'd spend stuck in traffic, meaning fewer drivers would be available to handle the peak
 demand and people needing rides would remain unserved. Is that preferable?
 • If 1,000 tickets for a Taylor Swift concert are put on sale at $100 and 3,000 people line up to buy
 them, what's the message? Simple: they're too cheap! Would it be unfair for the concert
 promoter to raise the price until there are just 1,000 people in line? Few people would say so.
 But if instead the price remains at $100 and the first 1,000 people buy them all, that leaves unmet
 demand, in which case those who bought the tickets would be able to resell them for more than
 $100. The profit would go to the resellers, who got their tickets at a price that was too low. Is
 that fair? Wouldn't it be fairer if the ticket prices were raised and the increment went to Tay
 Tay, reflecting the full value her fans put on her labor?
 • In 2021, when people wanted to leave their city apartments, and homes and building materials
 were in short supply, home prices shot upward. If you owned a home worth $400,000 in 2019
 and asked $500,000 for it in the post-pandemic environment, was your behavior immoral?
 Should the government prosecute people who asked more for their homes?
 • Lastly, when the economy sprung back to life in 2021 and there were multiple job openings per
 unemployed worker, making higher salaries attainable, workers were able to tell the boss, "I can
 get a higher salary down the road. If you don't give me a raise, I'm leaving." Should the
 government limit wage increases at a time when employees have an edge in negotiations? In the
 fall of 2023, the United Auto Workers union took advantage of the bargaining power caused by
 the tight labor conditions to extract from Ford "an 11% wage increase in the first year, and total
 25% increase in wages over the 4.5 year contract, a $5,000 ratification bonus and a cost-of-living
 adjustment." (Wikipedia) This was a huge package. Did it represent gouging?

Each of these examples shows one party taking advantage of supply/demand conditions to charge
more for the thing they have to offer. But certainly, their actions aren't illegitimate. They're simply
examples of how markets work.

The alternative would be to have the government decide who should prevail in each case. Should it be the
Uber driver or the passenger; the concertgoer or the performer; the homeowner or the homebuyer; the
worker or the employer? Many have a knee-jerk tendency to sympathize with the passenger, concertgoer,
homebuyer, and worker, as it's easy to care less about the person who's profiting: the driver, popstar,
homeowner, and employer. But if the government puts its thumb on the scale in favor of one party or
the other, it distorts the workings of the free market and keeps it from functioning efficiently on
behalf of society overall. More on this later.

There are forms of seller behavior that are clearly wrong. These include collusion, price fixing, and
predatory pricing designed to drive competitors out of the market. But laws prohibiting these behaviors
are already on the books. Additional laws designed to prohibit and punish price increases that someone
views as unfair, excessive or exorbitant - as opposed to being the result of improper conduct - are sure to
prove difficult to enforce and counter-productive.

Would a Law Against Price Gouging Work?

Just as history is full of failed command economies, it also shows the ineffectiveness of attempts to
regulate prices. In 1974, when the OPEC oil embargo set off inflation that made life difficult for millions,
the U.S. government countered by distributing "WIN" buttons, standing for Whip Inflation Now. I still
have mine, but neither it nor the voluntary consumer actions that were supposed to follow were enough to
keep inflation from reaching 13.5% in 1980. The buttons were derided, with some skeptics wearing them
upside down, according to Wikipedia. "Worn that way, 'NIM' stood for 'No Immediate Miracles,'
'Nonstop Inflation Merry-go-round,' or 'Need Immediate Money.' ''

There's more recent experience with price controls, in Venezuela. Here's what I said about it in Economic
Reality:

 A case in point is the price controls, which have expanded to apply to more and
 more goods: food and vital medicines, yes, but also car batteries, essential
 medical services, deodorant, diapers, and, of course, toilet paper. The
 ostensible goal was to check inflation and keep goods affordable for the
 poor, but anyone with a basic grasp of economics could have foreseen the
 consequences: When prices are set below production costs, sellers can't afford
 to keep the shelves stocked. Official prices are low, but it's a mirage: The
 products have disappeared. (Atlantic Monthly, May 12, 2016, emphasis added)

 Here's a shocker: you can set prices for goods, but you can't make people produce
 them. That sounds a lot like economic reality.

This is an example of the fact that officials may believe they can control economic developments with a
stroke of the pen, but they'll be thwarted by second-order consequences that complicate the effort.

There's nothing wrong with trying to bring down the cost of necessities. However, the best way to do this
is to encourage additions to supply. Another way is to not overstimulate demand by injecting excessive
liquidity into the economy. Mandating lower prices is generally the least effective way to get them.

This is a good time for me to cite the economist's adage that "the best solution for high prices is
high prices." This isn't a joke; far from it. In general, high prices mean demand is strong relative to
supply. Eventually, those high prices will encourage producers to produce more and consumers to
consume less, and the depressant impact on prices from both directions is obvious. We see this all the
time in the oil market, for just one example.

A government bureaucracy set up to regulate the price of food is very unlikely to succeed and almost
certainly would have adverse effects. So, are there no benefits we can count on from price controls? I
can think of one: thousands of new (albeit unproductive) jobs in that new bureaucracy. As Jason Furman,
a relatively liberal economist, said of Harris's anti-gouging efforts, "This is not sensible policy, and I
think the biggest hope is that it ends up being a lot of rhetoric and no reality."

Another Case in Point: Rent Control

The issue that first suggested this memo several months ago was rent control, something I've had
personal experience with, having lived in an apartment that rented for $92 a month in 1956, when I was
ten.

The federal government implemented rent control during World War II so that, with few new apartment
buildings being built and breadwinners away fighting the war rather than earning their normal wages,
families wouldn't be priced out of their apartments. Rents on New York City apartments were frozen at
1943 levels. This was probably a good idea under the unusual circumstances of wartime, but the program
wasn't dismantled afterwards, and it still governs some apartments that were built more than 80 years ago.
And rent regulation still plays havoc with the supply and demand for New York City apartments.

In general, New York City rent control limits rent increases on apartments so long as they're occupied by
people who were tenants in 1971 or relatives who lived with them. The law was enacted to protect the
occupants at the time, but apartments have been passed down at controlled rents to people who didn't

necessarily live in them in 1971. Fewer and fewer people are still around who satisfy the above criterion,
so this form of rent regulation is winding down.

Newer regulations continue in force under the rubric of "rent stabilization." One example is Mandatory
Inclusionary Housing, which has been explained to me as follows: if you want to build an apartment
building and need some zoning relief - and virtually all projects do - you must agree as follows:

 • A percentage of the apartments will be "affordable."
 • Tenants for affordable apartments must earn incomes well below the average in the area.
 • The maximum allowable rent will be set based on a percentage of tenants' income.
 • Rent increases upon lease renewal will be regulated, usually at a few percent per year.

Most would agree that it's laudable to encourage the creation of new affordable apartments, but this
particular method of doing so has the related effect of increasing the cost of apartment construction.
Probably everyone would be better off if there were simply more new apartments built every year.

The bottom line is that rents for the majority of New York City apartments remain subject to one form of
control or another and are unlikely to ever become fully deregulated. As a result, the incentives to build
new apartments are limited, and between 2002 and 2017, for example, the growth in the number of rental
apartments in New York City was only 0.3%, per year.

Improvements in regulated apartments are also regulated. Expenditures on improvements are limited to a
very small amount in any 15-year period, and the investment can be recouped only through an increase in
the monthly rent equal to a tiny percentage of the cost of the improvements. Thus, making improvements
is generally uneconomic:

 Many landlords do not fill their vacant rent stabilized units, as the operational and
 renovation costs may exceed the legal maximum rent. As of 2022, there are roughly
 20,000 vacant rent stabilized apartments in New York City. (Wikipedia)

Might there be something wrong with a system where (a) there's strong demand for apartments but (b) it's
more profitable to keep apartments vacant than rent them out? Apartments aren't much different from
bread or toilet paper. Officials can limit the price people have to pay, which is popular with
consumers, but other than in the most dictatorial jurisdictions, they can't force suppliers to
produce goods for sale at the regulated prices.

As I've tried this year to keep up with articles about New York's apartment situation, I've noticed that the
following factors are usually listed as discouraging apartment creation: (a) a lack of tax incentives and
subsidies, (b) resistance to construction of affordable apartment buildings in the suburbs, and (c) high
interest rates (albeit the last one can't be used to explain the low level of apartment construction in the
2010s). What struck me most was the absence of any mention of the impact of rent regulations.

A February 9 article in The New York Times particularly piqued my interest. The article reported that the
percentage of New York City rental apartments that were "vacant and available" had fallen to 1.4%, the
lowest since 1968. It went on to say, "Housing experts consider a healthy vacancy rate to be somewhere
around 5 to 8 percent." So why are so few apartments vacant? It comes down to supply and demand:

 a) As in the example of Taylor Swift tickets, they're simply too cheap. That means demand is
 strong and apartments don't sit vacant.

 b) Also, because rents are kept too low, would-be builders can't achieve attractive returns,
 meaning there are few additions to supply. (I also imagine that if apartment builders could earn
 an acceptable return on investment, they'd have to worry about new regulations expropriating it.)

As mentioned earlier with regard to prices in general, if demand for apartments is strong and
supply is restricted, the result should be rents that rise, encouraging landlords to add to supply.
But market forces aren't allowed to freely function in New York City; the laws of economics have
been blunted by regulation. The February 9 article included the following statements (and this is from
The New York Times, again usually not the capitalist's friend):

 The answer is that developers generally can't make returns for building apartments that are
 competitive with the returns on other forms of investment. . . .

 Housing experts estimate that the number of homes the city needs to build is in the
 hundreds of thousands.

 So far, however, the city and state have not made moves that could accelerate enough
 housing development to solve the crisis. . . .

 [Governor Kathy] Hochul said in a statement that the survey was "the latest reminder that
 we can only build our way out of this crisis."

But it's interesting to note that the "moves" that are described as having the potential to lead to
"building our way out of this crisis" always emphasize government-provided subsidies and
incentives, never allowing the free market to set rents.

A person in favor of this arrangement would argue that it maintains affordability and diversity. What it
means in purely economic terms is that some people who couldn't afford to live in New York City if
rents were set by free-market forces are able to live there if they're lucky enough to secure an
apartment with regulated rent. But other people who would like to live in New York City and can
afford higher rents can't do so because there are no apartments for them. And lastly, landlords that
have apartments that are somehow unregulated can command higher rents than would be the case if
additions to the supply of apartments weren't being discouraged. It's a matter of personal philosophy
whether this is good or bad. But clearly, the laws of economics and the actions of free markets aren't at
work in New York City. Someone in government is making the decisions.

I'll end this discussion with a comment Jason Furman made about grocery prices:

 Mr. Furman . . . said . . . if prices do not rise in response to strong demand, new
 companies may not have as much inclination to jump into the market to ramp up supply.
 (The New York Times, August 15)

By the way, as part of her August 16 economic package, Harris said she would prohibit landlords who
own more than 50 apartments from raising rents by more than 5% for two years. That may or may not be
a good idea, but it's certainly not going to encourage increased investment in apartments.

Regulatory Miscellany

There are so many examples of governmental attempts to ignore or override the laws of economics that
it's daunting to think of cataloging them, but I must discuss a few here, and their shortcomings:

 • Another component of Harris's economic program is a plan to give first-time homebuyers
 $25,000 to help with down payments. Certainly, it's hard these days for young people to come
 up with the cash needed to become homeowners. The problem here is that giving a million
 would-be buyers $25,000 each, or $25 billion in all, would almost certainly result in an
 immediate increase in home prices, eliminating much of the hoped-for benefit from the program.
 Easy: that can be prevented by passing a law that prohibits current sellers from raising home
 prices in response to enactment of the program. But what about homes that will come onto the
 market in the future? Simple: enact another law that says you can't ask more for your home than
 you would have if the program didn't exist. Try enforcing that one.

 • When he was president, Donald Trump enacted tariffs on goods from China to counter trade
 practices he considered unfair. Now, he promises a 10% across-the-board tariff on imports.
 Those tariffs might discourage imports, stimulate domestic production, and reduce the U.S.'s
 chronic trade deficit. But they'd likely be paid by consumers of imported goods, as
 manufacturers and exporters are unlikely to absorb a tariff if they can pass it on. For many years
 low-cost imports have held down inflation in the U.S. and enabled Americans to enjoy an
 attractive standard of living. Broad new tariffs are likely to be the equivalent of price increases
 for American consumers. And the tariffs - and those imposed by other nations in retaliation -
 would hamper globalization, which benefits the global economy by letting people in each nation
 do for the world what they're best at.

 • Trump's policy proposals also include extension of his expiring 2017 tax cuts and a panoply of
 new ones. There's something for everyone, with tax cuts for corporations and individuals,
 including ending the taxation of tips, Social Security benefits, and overtime pay. The Penn
 Wharton Budget Model estimates that in 2026, the plan would reduce taxes by $320 for the
 average person in the bottom income quintile and $47,220 for those in the top percentile. Even
 without factoring in the latest proposals, like exempting overtime pay, these actions are projected
 to increase the national deficit by $5.8 trillion over the next decade, or $4.1 trillion after
 incorporating their potential stimulative impact on the overall economy (so-called "trickle-down
 effects"). Other than that possibility, there's no suggestion the cuts would be paid for.

 • California is a Petri dish for so-called "progressive" economic ideas. In 2022, the state legislature
 passed a bill creating a council comprised of industry representatives and restaurant workers to
 set wages in the fast-food industry. Faced with a threatened industry-financed referendum to
 repeal the law, legislators modified it to mandate a minimum hourly wage of $20 for fast food
 chains of more than 60 restaurants. The new law only took effect in April, so it's too early to
 assess its impact. Press accounts, however, are replete with accounts of restaurants closing,
 employees being laid off or having their hours reduced, employers investing in labor-saving
 technologies, and substantial price increases for the consumer. Although "mom and pop"
 restaurants are not required to pay the new minimum wage, predictably many have been forced to
 match the mandated rate to retain their employees, meaning the protection legislators intended for
 small restaurants may be illusory. That's how the laws of economics work.

 • Similarly, California passed a law mandating a $25-an-hour minimum wage for workers in the
 healthcare industry. But more recently, according to The Wall Street Journal of May 27,
 officials realized that it "would cost the state $4 billion more a year owing to higher Medicaid
 costs and compensation for workers at state-owned facilities" and so they delayed the benefit of
 the law with respect to those workers. Shocking here is the idea that you can't give money to
 someone without getting it from someone else, and California taxpayers might not enjoy the state
 directing more of it to healthcare workers, especially given the current budget deficit.

 • If there's one thing both parties agree on, it's "hands off Social Security!" Retirees present and
 future want their monthly payments, and they want the rules left as they are. The leaders of both
 parties have agreed to this. It's just that it can't work. Social security is a contributory program
 analogous to insurance, and it works through a trust fund. Workers pay in via taxes and retirees
 get checks. But the number of retirees drawing benefits has been growing relative to the number
 of active workers paying in, and, if nothing is changed, the fund is sure to become insolvent
 through an inexorable mathematical process. There are many levers that could be pulled to
 restore Social Security to health, but nobody wants to pull them, since doing so would displease
 someone (that is, displease some voters). The options include (a) raising the Social Security tax
 rate, (b) raising the ceiling on the earnings on which tax is paid, (c) reducing benefits, (d) limiting
 cost-of-living adjustments, (e) raising the retirement age, (f) limiting the number of years for
 which retirees can collect, and (g) means testing would-be recipients. None of these is considered
 acceptable. Everyone just wants their checks as promised.

 It doesn't take a degree in economics to know what happens when people spend more than they
 bring in. (Only in political reality might someone expect a different outcome.) However, we
 don't hear a word from politicians or elected officials about making the changes that are
 necessary to keep the Social Security trust fund from insolvency. The government can switch
 Social Security from a self-funded program to a government-funded benefit, of course, and at first
 glance, the change appears to be mainly semantic. But depleting the trust fund and paying
 benefits from the Treasury would add further to the already-troublesome deficit, the national debt,
 and the annual debt service, which would feed back to further increase the deficit and debt.

That leads me to a topic I'm asked about all around the world: the U.S. government's deficit and debt. I
answer that they're an embarrassment. Oaktree is privileged to manage money for several countries that
have sovereign wealth funds, not national debt. Some countries put windfalls into a lockbox, like
Norway's oil revenues or the proceeds from the privatization of Australia's telephone company. And
many other countries live within their means simply because they have to - they don't have the luxury of
printing unlimited amounts of money without precipitating a devaluation. But the U.S. habitually runs
deficits, spending more than it takes in. Our last surplus came in 2000, at the end of the Clinton
administration. Today, for the first time, simply the annual interest on our national debt exceeds the
Defense Department budget. Yet neither party is willing to address the deficit or stand for balanced
budgets. Our congress rarely submits a budget at all, no less a balanced one. This is irresponsible
behavior we wouldn't tolerate in our own organizations.

The U.S. acts as if it has a credit card with no limit on the balance and no requirement to pay it
down. It does so because it's been able to get away with it thus far, and our governing officials lack
the will to spend less than they can. We don't hear much these days about Modern Monetary Theory,
the view popularized in 2020 that "for countries in control of their currencies, deficits and debts don't
matter." Nevertheless, our government still acts as if this theory is valid.

In the 1930s, John Maynard Keynes posited that when an economy is growing too slowly to produce the
needed jobs, the government should increase spending to stimulate demand, even if that means running a
deficit and covering it by borrowing. And then, when prosperity resumes and the jobs are there, it should
spend less than it takes in, running a surplus and using it to repay the debt. All good, except for that last
bit: the part about surpluses and debt repayment has been forgotten.

The truth is, deficits encourage the economic growth that most people enjoy, and spending more than the
government takes in permits officials to give away "free stuff," thereby gaining votes. But doing this

perpetually requires ignoring the laws of economics, running up debts in the apparent belief that
they'll never have to be paid. Can it go on without end? We'll see, but I would think not.

What Are the Common Threads?

The actions and proposed actions described above, like the questions beginning at the bottom of page
three, all have certain elements in common.

• The goals usually seem commendable on the surface: cheaper goods and services, and more equal
 outcomes. But, given the way things work in economics, they usually have second-order
 consequences that are uncontrollable and unhelpful.
• At their core, they're all questions of "who gets what?" There's no possibility of money appearing
 from out of the ether; there are just choices regarding who pays in and who gets something out. It's a
 zero-sum game.
• The goals are often populist, with legislators and regulators picking winners and losers. They usually
 fashion their actions as protecting the downtrodden little guy from the rapacious big guy. Most anti-
 free-market regulations incorporate size criteria, meaning they only apply to supermarkets, not corner
 grocery stores; landlords with a lot of apartments; medical facilities of a certain size; and restaurant
 chains, not independents. In this context, we should note what President Biden said at the Democratic
 National Convention in August: "I'm proud to have been the first president to walk a picket line
 and be labeled the most pro-union president in history." Are employees per se more deserving of
 protection than employers? Without employers, where would people get jobs? Regardless, they do
 serve as convenient targets for politicians.
• The rhetoric surrounding these matters is often alarmingly classist and divisive. Here's part of a
 typical note I received from a candidate last month: "Even with inflation lowering [sic], food prices
 still seem sky-high. It's another sign of corporate greed hurting . . . consumers. CEOs shouldn't be
 lining their pockets with record profits while families struggle to put food on the table or pay for
 medications." In this kind of environment, "profit" is a dirty word, and "greedy corporations" are
 ripe for suspicion and regulation.
• Finally, elected officials have a habit of exempting themselves from impact. Thus, it's interesting to
 observe that California's minimum fast-food wage doesn't apply to restaurants in government
 facilities. What official wants to suffer the wrath of an employee forced to pay more for lunch?

One of the most important characteristics of the laws of economics is that they apply to everyone. On the
other hand, attempts to negate those laws are usually designed to affect some parties differently from
others. Whenever this is the case, those in charge are picking would-be winners and losers. Not a great
idea in a "free society."

Fundamentally, government subsidies and economic regulations amount to encouraging actions
that people wouldn't take on their own. In other words, these actions wouldn't happen in a free
market. Mandates like these should be examined critically. Some may stem from officials' Solomonic
decisions and desire for a fair society. Others are probably the result of a philosophic bias in favor of
redistribution. And still others are just a matter of currying favor with voters.

For many career politicians, the first order of business is getting elected and reelected. Elected officials'
tinkering with the economy is often designed to appeal to voters. Then there's the added benefit of
getting officials off the hook, since they can redirect blame for politically undesirable developments to
"bad actors," such as powerful corporations and greedy landlords. Finally, economic regulations can

provide temporarily palliative outcomes, with the negative side effects coming only in later years, when
the officials who enacted them have left the political stage.

Free Markets or Controlled Markets? That Is the Question

Governments don't make a product, create value over and above the cost of the inputs they employ
or - other than through their spending - contribute to GDP. They collect (or print) money with one
hand and distribute money and services with the other. They collect taxes from taxpayers and incur debts
in the name of future taxpayers. Then they pay out money for benefit programs, salaries, capital
expenditures, and subsidies. Policymaking is about who will pay in and who will receive the benefits.

Governments don't strive for profits, meaning the people who run governments get a free pass on
efficiency. Corporate management teams that fail to produce a product worth more than the inputs - aka
make a profit - won't last long. But governments aren't expected to do so, and as a result, there's no easy
yardstick for quantifying a government's effectiveness, like profits do for a business.

Governments do play essential roles that may have nothing to do with profits or value added.

 • They provide things people can't provide for themselves, such as defense, healthcare, police and
 fire services, education, infrastructure, and response to emergencies, both physical (floods,
 tornados, and pandemics) and economic (recessions and hyperinflation).
 • They also provide safety nets for those who would otherwise suffer. There are extensive
 differences of opinion over how much of this governments should do, and those differences
 underly one of the biggest disagreements between the U.S. political parties.

Beyond necessities, how far should a government go to even out its citizens' incomes and quality of life?
Doing so is one of the reasons why governments take from some to give to others as described above.
But it must be acknowledged that each step in this direction - as opposed to requiring people to
fend for themselves - is a step in contravention of free-market forces, with consequences.

 • Darwin described the way species are strengthened through what is known as "survival of the
 fittest." It works, and species evolve upward. But this is, by definition, a cold-blooded process
 through which the strong thrive and the weak perish. Good for the whole of the species, but not
 for every member.
 • Likewise, the collective economic welfare of a society is maximized by the operation of the free
 market. In the process, some people do better than others - preferably, but certainly not always,
 the most talented, hardest working, and most deserving. Only in the most rose-colored (and ill-
 fated) systems is it not accepted that some people will do better than others. But the differential
 has expanded a great deal of late, and there is a growing debate as to "how much better" is fair
 and acceptable.

The choice is clear based on the evidence provided by history: (a) efficient free market economies
with their incentives and uneven outcomes or (b) command economies with their uniform outcomes
and sub-par performance. On page two, I wrote the following:

 The incentives provided by free markets direct capital and other resources where they'll
 be most productive. They prompt producers to make the goods people want most and
 workers to take jobs where they'll be most productive in terms of the value of their
 output. And they encourage hard work and risk taking.

In contrast, if markets are made less free - that is, if they're forced to follow government edicts rather
than the laws of economics:

 • capital and raw materials will be directed to places other than where they'll be most productive;
 • producers will fail to make the things people want most, and instead will make things the
 government thinks people should have;
 • workers will be assigned to work where they'll produce less than they otherwise might; and
 • hard work and risk taking won't take place as much, since the rewards for doing those things will
 be capped and, in some cases, redirected to people who didn't do the work or take the risk but
 whom those in control deem deserving.

Incentives and free markets are essential for a high-functioning economy, but their existence
assures that some members of the economy will do better than others. You can't have one without
the other.

China

At this point you might ask, "But what about China? The Chinese economy isn't free to operate pursuant
to the laws of economics, but it's doing well." We think of China as a "communist country," replete with
state-owned enterprises, industrial policy, and five-year plans. And yet, China's GDP has grown at nearly
9% per annum for the last 45 years, and in 2010 it became the world's second-largest economy. How
could that be?

As it turns out, much of China's economic success is attributable to a vibrant private sector. I've been
visiting China for nearly 20 years and, especially during my early visits, I struggled to comprehend the
logic that permits the coexistence of the collective ideology with private enterprise. Certainly, those are
"strange bedfellows." A visit to Xiamen, China earlier this month for the China International Fair for
Investment & Trade reminded me of this conundrum. Regardless of the explanation, the fact is that
China's economy relies heavily on the dynamic private sector. In the summer of 2022, Edward
Cunningham of the Harvard Kennedy School used a popular formulation to describe it:

 China's private sector is often summed up with a combination of four numbers:
 60/70/80/90. Private firms contribute 60% of China's GDP, 70% of its innovative
 capacity, 80% of its urban employment and 90% of new jobs.

And the government recognizes this. On March 13, 2023, CNN reported on a statement from Chinese
Premier Li Qiang:

 "For a period of time last year, there were some incorrect discussions and comments in
 the society, which made some private entrepreneurs feel worried," Li said Monday.
 "From a new starting point, we will create a market-oriented, legalized and
 internationalized business environment, treat enterprises of all types of ownership
 equally, protect the property rights of enterprises and the rights and interests of
 entrepreneurs."

Certainly, this represents a triumph of pragmatism over ideological purity. It's a clear example of
accommodating to economic reality rather than trying to override it.

 * * *

My first step toward understanding the workings of the various economic systems came in junior high
school in the late 1950s, when I read George Orwell's Animal Farm. Orwell wrote it in 1945 as a thinly
veiled critique of Russia and communism/socialism. That book taught me most of what I needed to know
about free markets versus command economies. If you haven't read it, or if you read it so long ago that
you can't remember what it says, I suggest you pick it up.

In the allegory of Animal Farm, the animals took over the running of the farm. For me, the key lesson
emanates from the motto they painted on the barn wall, borrowed from Karl Marx: "From each according
to his ability; to each according to his needs."

What an idealistic statement! It would be great if everyone produced all they could, with the more able
members of society producing more. And it would be great if everyone got what they need, with needier
individuals getting more. But, as the animals on the farm soon learned, if workers only get to keep what
they need, there's no incentive for the more able among them to put in the additional effort required to
produce a surplus from which to fill the needs of the less able. The great challenge, of course, is to
strike the proper balance: to take enough from the successful in the form of taxes to fund services,
government programs, and wealth transfers without eroding their incentive to work or encouraging
them to seek out low-tax jurisdictions.

What I discuss above are the economic facts of life, and some of their ramifications may be less than
ideal. But idealists' wishes don't govern economies; these realities do. Foremost among them are
the power of incentives and the influence of supply and demand. The rules must be respected; they
can't be ignored, wished away, or overridden without consequences.

Anyone who thinks it's better to live in a centrally planned economy that prefers evenly distributed
benefits over free markets hasn't studied history (or read Animal Farm). It may sound good in theory, but
it has never worked. The laws of economics will always win out eventually. Nations can respect them
and reap the associated benefits, or they can try to contravene them and pay the price in terms of
underperformance. In the world of politics, there can be limitless benefits and something for
everyone. But in economics, there are only tradeoffs.


Memo: Ruminating on Asset Allocation.

When I travel to see clients and spend entire days discussing investing and the markets, memo ideas often
pop up. Last month's visit with clients in Australia is a case in point. We talked about the "sea change" I
believe is taking place in interest rates and about the role of credit in portfolios, and in a few cases, this
led to the general topic of asset allocation. The result wasn't a lot of new ideas on the subject, but rather a
new way to combine old ideas into a unified theory.

Before I proceed, I want to mention that, from time to time in this memo, I'll say "generally," "usually,"
or "everything else being equal." These caveats are likely applicable to many more sentences and ideas
herein, but for the sake of readability, I'm not going to repeat them ad nauseum. In addition, I'm going to
use a lot of graphics, as I truly believe one picture is worth a thousand words. Please bear in mind that
these representations are intended to be notional, not technically correct.

Asset Classes

From my vantage point, "asset allocation" is a relatively new thing. No one used that phrase when I
joined the industry 55 years ago. Structuring portfolios was a pretty simple matter, generally following
the classic "60/40" split. Most U.S. investors limited themselves to investing in U.S. stocks and bonds,
and there was a time-honored notion that something like 60% equities and 40% bonds represented
reasonable diversification.

Today, investors are presented with so many choices - and there's so much emphasis on getting the
decision right - that the term "asset allocation" is very prominent, and there are individuals and whole
departments dedicated to doing just that. It's their job to decide how to weight the asset classes to be held
in a portfolio, meaning asset allocators spend their time on decisions like these:

 • How much in equities and how much in debt?
 • How much in stocks and bonds and how much in "alternatives"?
 • How much in public securities and how much in private assets?
 • How much in one's home country and how much abroad?
 • How much of the latter in the developed world and how much in emerging markets?
 • How much in high quality assets and how much in low quality?
 • How much in more volatile "high beta" assets and how much in steadier ones?
 • How much in levered strategies and how much unlevered?
 • How much in "real assets"?
 • How much in derivatives?

It's enough to make your head spin. Many investors use computer models to help with these decisions,
but the models require inputs regarding expected return, risk, and correlation, and most of these are based
on history and thus of questionable relevance to the future. Correlation between asset classes is
particularly difficult to predict. It's often a case of garbage in, garbage out (but with the added comfort
that comes from using mathematical models).

Ever since coming up with my sea change thesis regarding interest rates two years ago, I've been talking
about the increased utility of credit investments. And the more I've done so, the more I've thought about
the difference between credit investments and equities. Thus, the first thing I want to mention about
my "Australian epiphany" is the unconventional idea that, at bottom, there are only two asset
classes: ownership and debt. If someone wants to participate financially in a business, the essential
choice is between (a) owning part of it and (b) making a loan to it.

When I moved from Citibank's equity research department to its bond department in 1978, I learned
firsthand that this is a matter of night and day. On my new desk, I found a machine called a Monroe
360/65 Bond Trader. If you typed in a bond's interest rate, maturity date, and market price, it would tell
you the yield to maturity . . . in other words, what your return would be if you bought the bond at that
price and held it to maturity (and it paid). This was revolutionary to me. On the equity side I'd come
from, there was no place you could look to find out what your return would be.

This highlighted for me something I've always felt most investors don't grasp viscerally: the essential
difference between stocks and bonds . . . that is, between ownership and lending. Investors seem to think
of stocks and bonds as two things that fall under the same heading. But the difference is enormous. In
fact, ownership and lending have nothing in common:

 • Owners put their money at risk with no promise of a return. They acquire a piece of a business or
 other asset and are entitled to their proportional share of any residual that remains after the
 necessary payments have been made to employees, providers of raw materials, landlords, tax
 authorities, and, of course, lenders. If there's something left over, it's called profit or cash flow,
 and the owners have the right to share in whatever part of it is paid out. And if there's profit or
 cash flow (or the potential for it in the future), the business will have "enterprise value," in which
 the owners also share.
 • Lenders typically provide funds to help owners purchase or operate businesses or other assets
 and, in exchange, are promised periodic interest and the repayment of principal at the end. The
 relationship between borrower and lender is contractual, and the resulting return is known in
 advance as described above, again assuming the borrower makes the promised payments when
 due. That's why this kind of investing is called "fixed income" - the income is fixed. For the
 purposes of this memo, however, it might help to think of it as "fixed outcome" investing.

This isn't a difference in degree; it's a difference in kind. Ownership assets (things like common
stocks, whole companies, real estate, private equity, and real assets) and debt (bonds, loans, mortgage
backed securities, and other streams of promised payments) should be thought of as entirely different, not
variations on a theme. They have different characteristics and potential, and the choice between them is
one of the most basic things investors must decide.

The Essential Choice

At the outset of this memo, I listed some of the decisions that comprise the asset allocation process. But
how can those decisions be approached? What's the framework for making them?

The next piece that clicked into place in my thinking "down under" was with regard to the basic
characteristics of a portfolio. In my opinion, one decision matters more than - and should set the
basis for - all the other decisions in the portfolio management process. It's the selection of a
targeted "risk posture," or the desired balance between aggressiveness and defensiveness. The
essential decision in investing is how much emphasis one should put on preserving capital and how much
on growing it. These two things are mostly mutually exclusive:

 • Insistence on preserving capital - or, secondarily, on limiting the portfolio's volatility - calls for
 an emphasis on defense, which precludes pursuing maximum growth.
 • Correspondingly, a decision to strive to maximize growth requires an emphasis on offense,
 meaning preservation of capital and steadiness must be sacrificed to some degree.

It's one or the other. You can't simultaneously emphasize both preservation of capital and
maximization of growth, or defense and offense. This is the fundamental, inescapable truth in
investing. The questions listed on page one are just details, the options available for reaching your
targeted risk posture.

If you think about portfolio construction in this sense - looking for the right balance between offense and
defense - it becomes clear that the goal should be optimization, not maximization. To my mind, it
shouldn't be "wealth," but "wealth pursued in an appropriate way, taking into account the investor's
wants and needs."

Many people think the proper goal in investing is achieving the highest return. More sophisticated
thinkers understand - either intellectually or intuitively - that the goal should be to achieve the best
relationship between return and risk. If you follow that latter mandate, it'll hopefully lead you to
assets whose expected return is more than sufficient to compensate for their risk, and thus to a portfolio
with the potential for an attractive risk-adjusted return. But that's not enough.

The absolute level of risk in a portfolio shouldn't be an unwitting consequence of the asset
allocation process described above, or of the search for superior risk-adjusted returns. The
absolute risk level must be consciously targeted. In fact, in my view, it's the most important thing.
For an investment program to be successful, the level of risk in the portfolio must be well
compensated and fall within the desired range . . . neither too much nor too little.

The Shape of the Curves

In the last few months, I've been drawing probability distributions to illustrate the fundamental difference
between the potential returns from ownership assets and debt (or "fixed income," "credit," or whatever
you want to call it). Here's the general shape of the curve describing the potential return on a portfolio of
ownership assets (Figure 1):

And following on page four is the shape of the curve describing the potential return on a portfolio of debt
(Figure 2):

Ownership assets typically have a higher expected return, greater upside potential, and greater
downside risk. Everything else being equal, the expected returns from debt are lower but likely to
fall within a much tighter range. There's generally no upside on debt - no one should buy an 8% bond
expecting to make more than 8% per year over the long term. But there's also relatively little downside -
you'll get your 8% if the borrower pays, and relatively few fail to pay. For this reason, offense is usually
better played through ownership assets, and defense is usually better played through debt. (I hasten to
add that investing isn't a matter of either/or. The two can be combined, meaning the operative question
surrounds the right mix.)

In the low-interest-rate environment that prevailed from 2009 through 2021, the expected return from
debt was extremely low in the absolute and far below the historical return on equities, rendering debt
relatively unattractive (Figure 3).

But today, it's considerably higher than it was and closer to that of equities (Figure 4). That's why I've
been urging increased investment in credit.

Obviously, the relationship between the two curves at a point in time has a very direct bearing on the
appropriate asset allocation at that time.

Which of the two is "better," ownership or debt? We can't say. In a market with any degree of
efficiency - that is, rationality - it's just a tradeoff. A higher expected return with further upside
potential, at the cost of greater uncertainty, volatility, and downside risk? Or a more dependable
but lower expected return, entailing less upside and less downside? The choice between the two is
subjective, largely a function of the investor's circumstances and attitude toward bearing risk. That
means the answer will be different for different investors.

Choosing the Offense/Defense Balance

I've previously expressed my view that, as a starting point, every investor or their investment manager
should identify their appropriate normal risk posture or offense/defense balance. For each individual or
institution, this decision should be informed by the investor's investment horizon, financial condition,
income, needs, aspirations, responsibilities, and, crucially, intestinal fortitude, or their ability to stomach
ups and downs.

Once investors have specified the normal risk posture that's right for them, they face a choice: they can
maintain that posture all the time, or they can opt to depart from it on occasion in response to the
movements of the market and thus changes in the attractiveness of the offerings it provides, increasing
their emphasis on offense when the market is beaten down and on defense when it's riding high.

Regardless of whether one's risk posture is fixed or variable, however, the next question is how one gets
there. This question led me to think about another old idea: the relationship between risk and return. I've
described a million times the way this was taught at the University of Chicago, beginning when I was
there in the 1960s. It's a graphical presentation we've all seen ever since, in which, as we move from left
to right, increasing the expected risk, the expected return also increases (Figure 5):

As readers know, I always felt this representation was highly inadequate, since the linearity of the
relationship in the graph makes it appear too certain that increased risk will lead to increased
return. This obviously belies the nature of risk. So, in a memo in 2006, I took the same line and
superimposed on it some bell-shaped curves representing probability distributions turned on their side. I
did this to indicate the uncertain nature of returns from riskier assets (Figure 6):

Now, we see that as the thing called "risk" increases (that is, as we move from left to right on the
graph), not only does the expected return increase, but the range of possible outcomes becomes
wider and the bad outcomes become worse. That's risk! (I hope this way of presenting risk will be
considered a lasting contribution to the investment industry when I'm gone.)

Doodling one day, I took the black and green curves describing ownership asset returns and debt returns
from Figure 4 and added some intermediate positions in blue and red to indicate various combinations of
the two. Thus, the blue curve is 2/3 debt and 1/3 ownership, and the red is 1/3 debt and 2/3 ownership
(Figure 7):

In Australia, as I was showing this diagram, it struck me that Figure 7 is just another way to represent the
idea presented in Figure 6. Again, as we move from left to right (more ownership assets, less debt), the
expected return increases and the expected risk increases (that is, just as in Figure 6, the range of possible
outcomes grows wider and the left-hand tail stretches further into undesirable territory). This way of
presenting the options might be more intuitively clear.

Someone who believes in "more risk, more return" as portrayed in Figure 5 should logically adopt a high-
risk posture. But if they understand the real implications of increased risk, as suggested by Figures 6 and
7, then they might opt for something more moderate.

The Role of Alpha and Beta

All the foregoing assumes markets are efficient:

 • As risk increases in an efficient market, expected return increases proportionally. Or maybe that's
 better stated the other way around: as expected return increases, so does the accompanying risk
 (the uncertainty surrounding the outcome and the likelihood of a bad one). Thus, no position on
 the risk continuum (for example, in Figure 6) is "better" than any other. It's all just a matter of
 where you want to come out in terms of absolute riskiness, or what absolute level of return you

 want to aim for. The ratio of return to risk is similar at all points on the continuum - less of
 both toward the left, and more of both toward the right. Said another way, there's no free lunch.
 • Also, looking at each position on the risk continuum, the symmetricalness of the vertical
 distribution of possible returns around the expected return is similar from one position to
 the next. That means the ratio of upside potential to downside risk at one position on the
 continuum isn't markedly better than it is at other positions - again no free lunch.
 • Finally, if you want to move further out on the risk continuum, you can do so by either (a)
 investing in riskier assets or (b) applying leverage to the same assets (magnifying both the
 expected return and risk). Again, in a fully efficient market, neither tactic is preferable to the
 other.

The above three statements capture some of the important implications of supposed market efficiency.

Looked at this way, the only thing that matters is getting to the right risk position for you; under an
assumption of market efficiency, there's nothing to be gained in terms of return at a given level of
risk. All ways of getting to a certain risk level will produce the same expected return.

The reason for this is the academic view that, in an efficient market, (a) all assets are priced fairly relative
to each other, such that there are no bargains or over-pricings to take advantage of and (b) there's no such
thing as alpha, which I define as "gains resulting from superior individual skill." As a result, there's
nothing to be gained from active decision making: no asset class, strategy, security or manager is
"better" than any other. They merely vary in terms of risk and resulting return.

Also in the academic view, since there's no such thing as alpha, the only thing that differentiates assets is
their beta, or their relative volatility, the extent to which they reflect market movements. In the theory, it's
beta that expected returns are proportional to.

Now it's time for me to assert strenuously that, in reality, markets are not efficient in the academic
sense of always being "right." Markets may do an efficient job of (a) rapidly incorporating new
information and (b) accurately reflecting the resulting consensus opinion concerning the right price for
each asset given the totality of information, but that opinion can be far from correct. For that reason,
gains can be achieved by choosing skillfully among the options:

 • some assets, markets or strategies can offer a better risk/return bargain than others, and
 • some managers can operate within a market or strategy to produce superior risk-adjusted returns.

This last idea raises one of the key questions in asset allocation: should you consider departing from your
"sweet spot" in terms of risk level in order to invest in a riskier asset class with a manager believed to
possess alpha? There's no easy answer to this question, especially given that many managers who are
believed to possess alpha turn out not to.

To conclude, I'll recap the key points:

 • Fundamentally speaking, the only asset classes are ownership and debt.
 • They differ enormously in terms of their fundamental nature.
 • Ownership assets and debt assets should be combined to get your portfolio to the position on the
 risk/return continuum that's right for you. This is the most important decision in portfolio
 management or asset allocation.
 • The other decisions are merely a matter of implementation.

 • Of course, your asset allocation process will be informed by how you rate your ability to identify
 and access superior strategies and superior managers, recognizing that doing so isn't easy.

 * * *

Moving on to the real world, I want to make some important observations regarding one of Oaktree's key
sectors, non-investment grade credit (defined as performing non-government debt):

 • The prospective returns in this area today are much higher than they were in the 2009-21 period.
 • These returns, starting at roughly 7% on public credit and 10% on private credit, are competitive
 with the historical returns on equities and capable of helping many investors toward their overall
 return targets.
 • Because of their contractual nature, the returns from credit are likely to prove much more
 dependable than ownership returns.

In my view, the thought process set forth in this memo leads to the conclusion that investors
should increase their allocations in this area if they are (a) attracted by returns of 7-10% or so, (b)
desirous of limiting uncertainty and volatility, and (c) willing to forgo upside potential beyond today's
yields to do so. For me, that should include a lot of investors, even if not everyone.

My recommendation at this time is that investors do the research required to increase their allocation to
credit, establish a "program" for doing so, and take a partial step to implement it. While today's potential
returns are attractive in the absolute, higher returns were available on credit a year or two ago, and we
could see them again if markets come to be less ruled by optimism. I believe there will be such a time.

Thank you for indulging me in this foray into investment philosophy. I hope you've found it of value.