Memo: On Bubble Watch.

Exactly 25 years ago today, I published the first memo that brought a response from readers (after
having written for almost ten years without receiving any). The memo was called bubble.com, and the
subject was the irrational behavior I thought was taking place with respect to tech, internet, and e-commerce
stocks. The memo had two things going for it: it was right, and it was right fast. One of the first great
investment adages I learned in the early 1970s is that "being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable
from being wrong." In this case, however, I wasn't too far ahead.

This milestone anniversary gives me an occasion to write again about bubbles, a subject that's very much
of interest today. Some of what I write here will be familiar to anyone who read my December memo
about the macro picture. But that memo only went to Oaktree clients, so I'm going to recycle here the part
of its content that relates to the subject of bubbles.

Since I'm a credit investor, having stopped analyzing stocks nearly five decades ago, and since I've never
ventured far into the world of technology, I'm certainly not going to say much about today's hot
companies and their stocks. All of my observations will be generalities, but I'm hopeful they'll be
relevant nonetheless.

 * * *

In this century's first decade, investors had the opportunity to participate in - and lose money due to - two
spectacular bubbles. The first was the tech-media-telecom ("TMT") bubble of the late '90s, which began
to burst in mid-2000, and the second was the housing bubble of the mid-aughts, which gave rise to (a)
extending mortgages to sub-prime borrowers who couldn't or wouldn't document income or assets, (b) the
structuring of those loans into levered, tranched mortgage-backed securities, and consequently (c) massive
losses for investors in those securities, especially the financial institutions that had created them and
retained some. As a result of those experiences, many people these days are on heightened alert for
bubbles, and I'm often asked whether there's a bubble surrounding the Standard & Poor's 500 and the
handful of stocks that have been leading it.

The seven top stocks in the S&P 500 - the so-called "Magnificent Seven" - are Apple, Microsoft,
Alphabet (Google's parent), Amazon.com, Nvidia, Meta (owner of Facebook, WhatsApp, and Instagram),
and Tesla. I'm sure I don't have to go into detail regarding the performance of these stocks; everyone's
aware of the phenomenon. Suffice it to say that a small number of stocks have dominated the S&P 500 in
recent years and have been responsible for a highly disproportionate share of its gains. A chart from
Michael Cembalest, chief strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management, shows that:

 • the market capitalization of the seven largest components of the S&P 500 represented 32-33% of
 the index's total capitalization at the end of October;
 • that percentage is roughly double the leaders' share five years ago; and
 • prior to the emergence of the "Magnificent Seven," the highest share for the top seven stocks in
 the last 28 years was roughly 22% in 2000, at the height of the TMT bubble.

It's also important to note that at the end of November, U.S. stocks represented over 70% of the MSCI
World Index, the highest percentage since 1970 according to another Cembalest chart. Thus, it's clear that
(a) U.S. companies are worth a lot compared to the companies in other regions and (b) the top seven U.S.
stocks are worth a heightened amount relative to the rest of U.S. stocks. But is it a bubble?

What Is a Bubble?

Investment lingo comes and goes. My young Oaktree colleagues use a lot of terms these days for which I
have to request translation. But "bubble" and "crash" have been in the financial lexicon for as long as I've
been in the investment business, and I imagine they'll remain there for generations to come. Today, the
mainstream media uses them broadly, and people seem to consider them to be subject to objective
definition. But for me, a bubble or crash is more a state of mind than a quantitative calculation.

In my view, a bubble not only reflects a rapid rise in stock prices, but it is a temporary mania characterized
by - or, perhaps better, resulting from - the following:

 • highly irrational exuberance (to borrow a term from former Federal Reserve Chair Alan
 Greenspan),
 • outright adoration of the subject companies or assets, and a belief that they can't miss,
 • massive fear of being left behind if one fails to participate (''FOMO''), and
 • resulting conviction that, for these stocks, "there's no price too high."

"No price too high" stands out to me in particular. When you can't imagine any flaws in the argument
and are terrified that your officemate/golf partner/brother-in-law/competitor will own the asset in question
and you won't, it's hard to conclude there's a price at which you shouldn't buy. (As Charles Kindleberger
and Robert Aliber observed in the fifth edition of Manias, Panics, and Crashes: A History of Financial
Crises, "there is nothing so disturbing to one's well-being and judgment as to see a friend get rich.")

So, to discern a bubble, you can look at valuation parameters, but I've long believed a psychological
diagnosis is more effective. Whenever I hear "there's no price too high" or one of its variants - a more
disciplined investor might say, "of course there's a price that's too high, but we're not there yet" - I
consider it a sure sign that a bubble is brewing.

Roughly fifty years ago, an elder gave me the gift of one of my favorite maxims. I've written about it
several times in my memos, but in my opinion, I can't do so often enough. It's "the three stages of the bull
market":

 The first stage usually comes on the heels of a market decline or crash that has left most
 investors licking their wounds and highly dispirited. At this point, only a few unusually
 insightful people are capable of imagining that there could be improvement ahead.

 In the second stage, the economy, companies, and markets are doing well, and most
 people accept that improvement is actually taking place.

 In the third stage, after a period in which the economic news has been great, companies
 have reported soaring earnings, and stocks have appreciated wildly, everyone concludes
 that things can only get better forever.

The important inferences aren't with regard to economic or corporate events. They involve investor
psychology. It's not a matter of what's happening in the macro world; it's how people view the
developments. When few people think there can be improvement, security prices by definition don't
incorporate much optimism. But when everyone believes things can only get better forever, it can be hard
to find anything that's reasonably priced.

Bubbles are marked by bubble thinking. Perhaps for working purposes we should say that bubbles
and crashes are times when extreme events cause people to lose their objectivity and view the world
through highly skewed psychology - either too positive or too negative. Here's how Kindleberger put
it in the first edition of Manias, Panics, and Crashes:

 . . . As firms or households see others making profits from speculative purchases and
 resales, they tend to follow. When the number of firms and households indulging in these
 practices grows larger, bringing in segments of the population that are normally aloof
 from such ventures, speculation for profit leads away from normal, rational behavior to
 what have been described as "manias" or "bubbles." The word "mania" emphasizes the
 irrationality; "bubble" foreshadows the bursting. (Emphasis added)

For me, it's psychological extremeness that marks a bubble. Often, as Kindleberger indicates, it can be
inferred from widespread participation in the investment fad of the moment, especially among non-
financial types. Legend has it that J.P. Morgan knew there was a problem when the person shining his
shoes started giving him stock tips. My partner John Frank says he saw it in 2000, when he heard the dads
at his son's soccer game bragging about the tech stocks they owned, and again in 2006, when a Las Vegas
cab driver told him about the three condos he'd purchased. When Mark Twain purportedly said, "history
doesn't repeat itself, but it often rhymes," it's this kind of thing he was talking about.

The New, New Thing

If bubble thinking is irrational, what is it that permits investors to get away from rational thinking, like the
thrust of a rocket ship that breaks free of the limits imposed by gravity and attains escape velocity?
There's a simple answer: newness. This phenomenon relies on another time-honored investment phrase,
"this time is different."

Bubbles are invariably associated with new developments. There were bubbles in the Nifty Fifty stocks in
the 1960s (more on them just below), disc drive companies in the 1980s, TMT/internet stocks in the late
1990s, and sub-prime mortgage-backed securities in 2004-06. These relatively recent manias followed in
the tradition of ones like (a) the 1630s craze in Holland over recently introduced tulips and (b) the South
Sea Bubble in 1720 England concerning the riches that were sure to ensue from a trading monopoly that
the Crown had awarded to the South Sea Company.

In normal circumstances, if an industry's or a country's securities are attracting unusually high valuations,
investment historians are able to point out that, in the past, those stocks had never sold at more than an x%
premium over the average, or some similar metric. In this way, attention to history can serve as a
tether, keeping a favored group grounded on terra firma.

But if something's new, meaning there is no history, then there's nothing to temper enthusiasm.
After all, it's owned by the brightest people - the ones who are showing up in the headlines and on TV -
and they've made a fortune. Who's willing to throw a wet blanket over that party or sit out that dance?

The explanation often lies in Hans Christian Andersen's story The Emperor's New Clothes. Con men sell
the emperor an allegedly gorgeous suit of clothes that only intelligent people can see. But in actuality
there is no suit. When the emperor parades around town naked, the citizens are afraid to say they don't see
a suit, since that would mark them as unintelligent. This goes on unchecked until a young boy steps out of
the crowd and - in his naivete - points out that the emperor has no clothes. Most people would rather go
along with a shared delusion that's making investors buckets of money than say something to the contrary
and appear to be dummies. When a whole market or a group of securities is blasting off and a
specious idea is making its adherents rich, few people will risk calling it out.

My Baptism Under Fire

They say experience is what you got when you didn't get what you wanted, and I got my most
formative experience at the very beginning of my career. As many of my memo readers know, I joined the
equity research department at First National City Bank (now Citi) in September 1969. As was the case
with most of the so-called "money-center banks," Citi invested mainly in the "Nifty Fifty"- the stocks of
the best and fastest-growing companies in America. These companies were considered to be so good that
(a) nothing bad could ever happen and (b) there was no price too high for their stocks . . . literally.

Three factors contributed to investors' fascination with these stocks. First, the U.S. economy grew
strongly in the post-World War II period. Second, these companies benefitted from their involvement with
areas of innovation such as computers, drugs, and consumer products. And third, they represented the first
wave of "growth stocks," a new investment style that separately became a fad in itself. The Nifty Fifty
were the object of the first big bubble in roughly 40 years, and since there hadn't been one for so long,
investors had forgotten what a bubble looks like. As a result of the popularity that was conferred on them,
if you bought these stocks on the day I started work and held them tenaciously for five years, you lost well
over 90% of your money . . . in the best companies in America. What happened?

The Nifty Fifty had been put on a pedestal, and investors get hurt when something falls from it. The stock
market as a whole declined by about half in 1973-74. And it turned out these stocks had been selling at
prices that actually were too high; in many cases, their price/earnings ratios fell from the range of 60 to 90
to the range of 6 to 9 (that's the easy way to lose 90%). Further, bad things actually did happen to several
of the companies in fundamental terms.

My early brush with a genuine bubble caused me to formulate some guiding principles that carried me
through the next 50-odd years:

 It's not what you buy, it's what you pay that counts.

 Good investing doesn't come from buying good things, but from buying things well.

 There's no asset so good that it can't become overpriced and thus dangerous, and there are
 few assets so bad that they can't get cheap enough to be a bargain.

Things Can Only Get Better

The bubbles I've lived through have all involved innovations, as I noted above, and many of those were
either overestimated or not fully understood. The attractions of a new product or way of doing business
are usually obvious, but the potholes and pitfalls are often hidden and only discovered in trying times. A
new company may completely outclass its predecessors, but investors who by definition lack experience in

this new field often fail to grasp that even a bright newcomer can be supplanted. The disrupters can be
disrupted, whether by skillful competitors or even newer technologies.

In my early decades in business, technology seemed to evolve gradually. Computers, drugs, and other
innovative products improved a little at a time. But in the 1990s, innovation came in a big rush. When
Oaktree was founded in 1995, I insisted that I could get by with just WordPerfect for word processing and
Lotus 1-2-3 for spreadsheets. But when we moved to our current office in 1998, I threw in the towel and
let our IT team install e-mail and the internet (and, of course, WordPerfect gave way to Word, and Lotus 1-
2-3 to Excel). At the time, investors were sure "the internet will change the world." It certainly looked
that way, and that assumption prompted tremendous demand for everything internet-related. E-commerce
stocks went public at seemingly high prices and then tripled the first day. There was a real goldrush.

There's usually a grain of truth that underlies every mania and bubble. It just gets taken too far.
It's clear that the internet absolutely did change the world - in fact, we can't imagine a world without it.
But the vast majority of internet and e-commerce companies that soared in the late '90s bubble ended up
worthless. When a bubble burst in my early investing days, The Wall Street Journal would run a box on
the front page listing stocks that were down by 90%. In the aftermath of the TMT Bubble, they'd lost

When something is on the pedestal of popularity, the risk of a decline is high. When people assume -
and price in - an expectation that things can only get better, the damage done by negative surprises is
profound. When something is new, the competitors and disruptive technologies have yet to arrive. The
merit may be there, but if it's overestimated it can be overpriced, only to evaporate when reality sets in. In
the real world, trees don't grow to the sky.

The foregoing discussion centered on the risk of overestimating fundamental strength. But optimism
surrounding the power and potential of the new thing often causes the error to be compounded through the
assignment of too high a stock price.

 • As mentioned above, for something new, there by definition is no historical indicator of what an
 appropriate valuation might be.
 • Further, the companies' potential hasn't yet been turned into steady-state profits, meaning the
 thing that's being valued is conjectural. In the TMT Bubble, the companies didn't have earnings,
 so p/e ratios were out. And as startups, they often didn't have revenues to value. As a result, new
 metrics were invented, and trusting investors ended up paying a multiple of "clicks" or "eyeballs,"
 regardless of whether these measurables could be turned into revenues and profits.
 • Since bubble participants can't imagine there being any downside, they tend to award valuations
 that assume success.
 • In fact, it's not infrequent for investors to treat all contenders in a new field as likely to succeed,
 whereas in reality only a few may thrive, or perhaps even survive.
 • Ultimately, with a really hot new thing, investors can adopt what I call "a lottery ticket mentality."
 If a successful startup in a hot field can return 200x, it's mathematically worth investing in even if
 it's only 1% likely to succeed. And what doesn't have a 1% likelihood of success? When
 investors think this way, there are few limits on what they'll support or the prices they'll pay.

Obviously, investors can get caught up in the race to buy the new, new thing. That's where the bubble
comes in.

What's the Appropriate Price to Pay for a Bright Future?

If there's a company for sale that will make $1 million next year and then shut down, how much would
you pay for it? The right answer is a little less than $1 million, so that you'll have a positive return on
your money.

But stocks are priced at "p/e multiples" - that is, multiples of next year's earnings. Why? Because
presumably they won't earn profits for just one year; they'll go on making money for many more. When
you buy a stock, you buy a share of the company's earnings every year into the future. The price of the
S&P 500 has averaged roughly 16 times earnings in the post-World War II period. This is typically
described as meaning "you're paying for 16 years of earnings." It's actually more than that, though,
because the process of discounting makes $1 of profit in the future worth less than $1 today. The current
value of a company is the discounted present value of its future earnings, so a p/e ratio of 16 means you're
paying for more than 20 years of earnings (depending on the interest rate at which future earnings are
discounted).

In bubbles, hot stocks sell for considerably more than 16 times earnings. Remember the 60 to 90 times for
the Nifty Fifty! Investors in 1969 were paying for companies' earnings - even after giving them credit for
significant earnings growth - many decades into the future. Did they do so consciously and analytically?
Not that I recall. Investors thought of a p/e ratio as just a number . . . if they thought about it at all.

Today's S&P-leading companies are, in many ways, much better than the best companies of the past.
They enjoy massive technological advantages. They have vast scale, dominant market shares, and thus
above average profit margins. And since their products are based on ideas more than metal, the marginal
cost of producing an additional unit is low, meaning their marginal profitability is unusually high.

The further good news is that today's leaders don't trade at the p/e ratios investors applied to the Nifty
Fifty. Perhaps the sexiest of the seven is Nvidia, the leading designer of chips for artificial intelligence.
It's current multiple of future earnings is in the low 30s, depending on which earnings estimate you
believe. While double the average post-war p/e on the S&P 500, that's cheap compared to the Nifty Fifty.
But what does a multiple in the 30s imply? First, that investors think Nvidia will be in business for
decades to come. Second, that its profits will grow throughout those decades. And third, that it won't be
supplanted by competitors. In other words, investors are assuming Nvidia will demonstrate
persistence.

But persistence isn't easily achieved, especially in high-tech fields where new technologies can arise and
new competitors can leapfrog incumbents. It's worth noting, for example, that only about half the Nifty
Fifty (as enumerated by Wikipedia - there is no agreed-on list) are in the S&P 500 today (that figure
undoubtedly looks worse than the reality, since mergers and acquisitions caused some of the old names to
disappear, not failures). Leading lights of 1969 that are missing from the S&P 500 today include Xerox,
Kodak, Polaroid, Avon, Burroughs, Digital Equipment, and my favorite, Simplicity Pattern (how many
people make their own clothing these days?).

Another indication of how hard it is to persist can be seen in the names of the top twenty S&P 500
companies. At the beginning of 2000, according to finhacker.cz, these twenty companies were the most
heavily represented in the index:

 Microsoft Merck
 General Electric Coca-Cola
 Cisco Systems Procter & Gamble
 Walmart AIG

 Exxon Mobil Johnson & Johnson
 Intel Qualcomm
 Citigroup Bristol-Myers Squibb
 IBM Pfizer
 Oracle AT&T
 Home Depot Verizon

At the beginning of 2024, however, only six of them were still in the top twenty:

 Microsoft Johnson & Johnson
 Walmart Procter & Gamble
 Exxon Mobil Home Depot

Importantly, of today's Magnificent Seven, only Microsoft was in the top twenty 24 years ago.

In bubbles, investors treat the leading companies - and pay for their stocks - as though the firms are
sure to remain leaders for decades. Some do and some don't, but change seems to be more the rule
than persistence.

Whole Markets

The greatest bubbles usually originate in connection with innovations, mostly technological or financial,
and they initially affect a small group of stocks. But sometimes they extend to whole markets, as the
fervor for a bubble group spreads to everything.

In the 1990s, the S&P 500 was borne aloft by (a) the continuing decline of interest rates from their
inflation-fighting peak in the early 1980s and (b) the return of investor enthusiasm for stocks that had been
lost in the traumatic '70s. Technological innovation and the rapid earnings growth of the high-tech
companies added to the excitement. And an upswing in the popularity of stocks was reinforced by new
academic research showing there had never been a long period in which the S&P 500 failed to outperform
bonds, cash, and inflation. The combination of these positive factors caused the annual return on the index
to average more than 20% for the decade. I've never seen another period like it.

I always say the riskiest thing in the world is the belief that there's no risk. In a similar vein, heated
buying spurred by the observation that stocks had never performed poorly for a long period caused
stock prices to rise to a point from which they were destined to do just that. In my view, that's
George Soros's investment "reflexivity" at work. Stocks were tarred in the bursting of the TMT Bubble,
and the S&P 500 declined in 2000, 2001, and 2002 for the first three-year decline since 1939, during the
Great Depression. As a consequence of this poor performance, investors deserted stocks en masse,
causing the S&P 500 to have a cumulative return of zero for the more than eleven years from the
bubble peak in mid-2000 until December 2011.

Lately, I've been repeating a quote I attribute to Warren Buffett: "When investors forget that corporate
profits grow about 7% per year they tend to get into trouble." What this means is that if corporate profits
grow at 7% a year and stocks (which represent a share in corporate profits) appreciate at 20% a year for a
while, eventually stocks will be so highly priced relative to their earnings that they'll be risky. (I recently
asked Warren for a source on the quote, and he told me he never said it. But I think it's great, so I keep
using it.)

The point is that when stocks rise too fast - out of proportion to the growth in the underlying companies'
earnings - they're unlikely to keep on appreciating. Michael Cembalest has another chart that makes this
point. It shows that prior to two years ago, there were only four times in the history of the S&P 500 when
it returned 20% or more for two years in a row. In three of those four instances (a small sample, mind
you), the index declined in the subsequent two-year period. (The exception was 1995-98, when the
powerful TMT bubble caused the decline to be delayed until 2000. But then the index lost almost 40% in
three years.)

In the last two years, it's happened for the fifth time. The S&P 500 was up 26% in 2023 and 25% in 2024,
for the best two-year stretch since 1997-98. That brings us to 2025. What lies ahead?

The cautionary signs today include these:

 • the optimism that has prevailed in the markets since late 2022,
 • the above average valuation on the S&P 500, and the fact that its stocks in most industrial groups
 sell at higher multiples than stocks in those industries in the rest of the world,
 • the enthusiasm that is being applied to the new thing of AI, and perhaps the extension of that
 positive psychology to other high-tech areas,
 • the implicit presumption that the top seven companies will continue to be successful, and
 • the possibility that some of the appreciation of the S&P has stemmed from automated buying of
 these stocks by index investors, without regard for their intrinsic value.

Finally, while I'm at it, although it's not directly related to stocks, I have to mention Bitcoin. Regardless
of its merit, the fact that its price rose 465% in the last two years doesn't suggest an overabundance of
caution.

I often find that, just as I'm about to release a memo for publication, something comes along that demands
inclusion, and it has happened again. On the last day of 2024, I received something from two sources that
fits that description:

The graph, from J.P. Morgan Asset Management, has a square for each month from 1988 through late
2014, meaning there are just short of 324 monthly observations (27 years x 12). Each square shows the
forward p/e ratio on the S&P 500 at the time and the annualized return over the subsequent ten years. The
graph gives rise to some important observations:

 • There's a strong relationship between starting valuations and subsequent annualized ten-year
 returns. Higher starting valuations consistently lead to lower returns, and vice versa. There
 are minor variations in the observations, but no serious exceptions.
 • Today's p/e ratio is clearly well into the top decile of observations.
 • In that 27-year period, when people bought the S&P at p/e ratios in line with today's multiple of
 22, they always earned ten-year returns between plus 2% and minus 2%.

In November, a couple of leading banks came out with projected ten-year returns for the S&P 500 in the
low- to mid-single digits. The above relationship is the reason. It shouldn't come as a surprise that the
return on an investment is significantly a function of the price paid for it. For that reason, investors
clearly shouldn't be indifferent to today's market valuation.

You might say, "making plus-or-minus-2% wouldn't be the worst thing in the world," and that's certainly
true if stocks were to sit still for the next ten years as the companies' earnings rose, bringing the multiples
back to earth. But another possibility is that the multiple correction is compressed into a year or two,
implying a big decline in stock prices such as we saw in 1973-74 and 2000-02. The result in that case
wouldn't be benign.

The above are the things to worry about. Here are the counterarguments:

 • the p/e ratio on the S&P 500 is high but not insane,
 • the Magnificent Seven are incredible companies, so their high p/e ratios could be warranted,
 • I don't hear people saying, "there's no price too high;" and
 • the markets, while high-priced and perhaps frothy, don't seem nutty to me.

 * * *

As I said at the start of this memo, I'm not an equity investor, and I'm certainly no expert on technology.
Thus, I can't speak authoritatively about whether we're in a bubble. I just want to lay out the facts
as I see them and suggest how you might think about them . . . just as I did 25 years ago.

I hope you'll keep reading for the next 25!


Memo: Gimme Credit.

The questions I get from clients enable me to understand in real time what's on their minds. At various
points in the last ten years, the most frequently asked question was "when will the Fed raise/cut rates?"
During crises, it's usually "what inning are we in?" For a year or two, it's been "can we talk about private
credit?" And in the last few months, it's "what about spreads?"

Ever since interest rates got up off the floor in 2022, there's been increased interest in credit, and that's
why I'm devoting this memo to it. It'll come a little closer than usual to "talking my book," but I think
the subject justifies that. Most of my references will be to high yield bonds, where I have the most
experience, there's the most data, and the fixed coupon rates make the explanations most straightforward.
But the points I'll make are applicable to credit in general.

While I'm setting the stage, I want to get one thing out of the way. When people ask me, "can we talk
about private credit?" my answer is always the same: "can we talk about credit?" I see no reason
why investors should blithely skip over public credit instruments and go straight to private credit. For
that reason, I'm going to address both here.

Last year was a great one for credit, illustrated by the 8.2% return on the ICE BofA US High Yield Bond
Index. That followed even better results in 2023, when the benchmark returned 13.5%. What's been
behind these returns, and where do they leave the credit sector?

Background

As everyone knows, promised yields on credit instruments were meager in the low-interest-rate period
I've discussed so much: 2009-21. At the beginning of 2022, before the Fed embarked on its program of
interest rate hikes, high yield bonds yielded in the 4% range, with issuance taking place in the 3s and one
bond issued in the 2s! I described Oaktree's challenge at that time as "investing in a low-return world."
The ultra-low bond yields were unhelpful for most institutional investors, and many got out of the habit of
investing in fixed income. There was, however, good interest in private credit, where yields in the area of
6% were being levered up to 9% or so.

In 2022, investors who feared the Fed's rate increases would bring on a recession caused the average high
yield bond price to incorporate risk protection in the form of a yield spread of more than 4%, taking the
overall yield to roughly 91⁄2%. I argued at the time that these promised returns were (a) high in the
absolute, (b) relatively safe because of their contractual nature, and (c) well in excess of the returns most
institutions targeted. For these reasons, I urged that credit should be weighted significantly in portfolios.

These high-single-digit yields alone would have given holders healthy returns. However, investors began
to buy because they saw there was good value in credit, and they anticipated rate cuts that would make
bonds with high coupons more desirable. Over time, investors also became less worried about a possible
recession, and this led to reduced insistence on generous risk protection via credit spreads. Increased
demand, lower interest rates, and reduced insistence on risk protection in the form of higher spreads is a
perfect formula for price appreciation, and it ensued. This caused the bonds' total returns to exceed the

promised yields, and as a result, the high yield bond market delivered an annualized return of 10.8% over
the two-year period 2023-24.

The flip side of a rising price, of course, is a declining prospective return. As a result of the
developments described above, the yield to maturity on the average high yield bond now stands just
above 7%, down from 91⁄2%. Just as rising fear and risk aversion cause investments to offer higher
prospective returns, rising optimism and risk tolerance lead to lower ones, incorporating reduced yield
spreads. (The reduced yield is also attributable to 100 basis points of cuts in the base interest rate.)

What Is a Yield Spread?

Why would someone lend money to a risky borrower when there are plenty of safe borrowers to lend to?
The answer is that risky borrowers pay more for their money, and if you can charge a risky borrower an
interest rate that's high enough to produce a return above that available on safe debt, even after allowing
for expected credit losses, it could be worth taking the risk. That was precisely the theory that
underpinned Michael Milken's popularization of high yield bonds in the late '70s, as well as my career.

The differential between the promised yield on risky debt and the yield on a less risky comparator is
called a "yield spread," "credit spread," or just plain "spread." It's also called a "risk premium," which is
what it is: the incremental return you're offered to accept incremental default risk. Thus, it's the
equivalent of an insurance premium: what policyholders pay to get auto insurers to shoulder the risk that
they'll crash their cars.

Yield spreads primarily fluctuate with trends in, and investor psychology regarding, defaults. When more
companies are defaulting and investors expect elevated defaults in the future, they'll demand more
protection in the form of wider spreads. They'll do so to a lesser degree when they're optimistic about
creditworthiness. Thus, the spread is a good barometer of investor psychology, or a "fear gauge." It's
worth noting the obvious: the spread doesn't tell you what the actual default rate will be, as some
mistakenly say. It tells you what investors think the default rate will be. The thoughtful investor has to
evaluate that expression of opinion against what the reality is likely to be and assess whether investors are
being too optimistic or too pessimistic.

Are Today's Yield Spreads Adequate?

This is the question of the day. Let's say high yield bonds yield 8% and a Treasury note of the same
maturity offers 5%, for a yield spread of 3%, or 300 basis points. Which is the better deal? It all depends
on the likelihood of default. If high yield bonds have a 4% chance of defaulting each year and you're
likely to lose three-quarters of your money in a default, your expected annual credit loss is 3% (4% x
75%). If those estimates are accurate, you should be indifferent between the two. Or (holding constant
the 75% loss in case of default), you should prefer the Treasury note if high yield bonds are more than 4%
likely to default or high yield bonds if they're less than 4% likely to default.

When I managed high yield bonds, I considered the normal range for spreads to be 350-550 basis points.
More recently, I think this has been revised to 400-600 bps. Today, however, the yield spread is around
290 bps, one of the narrowest spreads on record since high yield bonds began to be issued in 1977-78.
Does that mean investors shouldn't hold them here? That's what people mean when they ask me, "can we
talk about spreads?"

It's essential to note that the "normal" spreads mentioned above have proved far more than adequate. We
know this because the unmanaged high yield bond indices - even with their defaults and credit losses -
have significantly outperformed no-risk Treasurys. Data from Barclays shows that from 1986 through
2024, the 39-year period covered by Oaktree's record, the annualized return on high yield bonds was
7.83%, compared to 5.14% on 10-year Treasurys. The fact that the average high yield bond gave
investors 269 bps more return per year than Treasurys tells us the historical spread was
considerably more than sufficient to offset credit losses. Thus, the historical spread shouldn't
necessarily be the standard for adequacy, and investors might intelligently opt for high yield bonds
over Treasurys even at spreads below the historical average.

Thus, the key question isn't whether today's spread is historically narrow or not. It's whether
today's spread is sufficient to offset the credit losses that will occur. This takes us back to the
calculation discussed three paragraphs above. Over the course of Oaktree's 39-year track record in high
yield bonds, from 1986 through 2024, the high yield bond universe's default rate has averaged 3.5%, and
defaulting bonds have cost investors about 2/3 of the money they had at stake, meaning annual credit
losses have amounted to about 230 bps (two-thirds of 3.5%). This suggests today's historically narrow
spread of about 290 bps would have been enough to offset the defaults that occurred in the past. Before
that's accepted as the appropriate conclusion on the subject, however, there are caveats to be considered:

 • The average default rate of 3.5% overstates the typical experience. That 3.5% average is far
 from the norm. Out of the 39 years covered by Oaktree's track record, there were only 14 years
 when the universe's default rate was at or above 3.5%, and 25 when it was below. The average
 was pulled up by double-digit default rates during crises in 1990-91 and 2001-02. If you took out
 those four years (along with the four best years, in which defaults were 1.0% or less), the average
 for the remaining 31 years was just 3.0%. Further, the median default rate for the 39 years (the
 midpoint of the annual observations) was even lower, at 2.7%.

 • The historical default rate might not be relevant to the future. In the Global Financial Crisis
 of 2008-09 and the Covid-19 pandemic of 2020, central banks and national treasuries showed that
 they've developed tools with which to counter recessions and credit crunches. As a result, the
 default experiences associated with those events were well below those in the earlier crises, even
 though the GFC and pandemic were much more serious in a macro sense. Thus, it can be
 argued that the macro environment has become safer, meaning the historical spreads are no
 longer called for.

 • The average high yield bond's credit rating (supposedly an indicator of quality) has risen
 substantially. Mainly because companies are less concerned about ratings these days, large
 numbers of investment grade triple-B-rated companies have opted to increase their use of
 leverage and allow their rating to slip to double-B, the upper tier of the high yield bond universe.
 The following table shows the change in the ratings profile of the high yield bond universe over
 the last 25 years:

 Data from ICE

 Research from Barclays indicates that since the average high yield bond is now higher in
 creditworthiness, today's average yield spread provides a good bit more compensation per unit of
 credit risk today than it did at the "all-time tight" of 2007.

 • Active credit managers strive to reduce (a) the incidence of default in their portfolios and (b) the
 percentage of capital lost when defaults occur. Since the historical spreads have been adequate to
 protect against average credit losses in the past, that means they've proved more than adequate
 for investors with superior credit discernment. For high yield bond managers with the ability
 to reduce credit losses through active management, there's a greater likelihood that spreads
 will prove sufficient to offset future credit losses.

For all these reasons plus one more, I believe the concern about historically narrow spreads is very much
overblown. My additional point is that spread widening is a short-term phenomenon, analogous to
volatility in stocks. If the yield spread widens, increasing the demanded yield, that results in a price
decline for bondholders. But the price decline is temporary, whereas the higher interest payments are
received every year . . . and then the bond eventually returns to par at maturity (assuming it performs).

I did some research with Oaktree's Nicole Adrien to test this thesis. We identified the all-time lowest
yield spread on our usual high yield bond benchmark and looked to see how we would've fared if we'd
bought bonds that day. The lowest spread was 241 bps, reached in June 2007, just prior to the onset of the
Global Financial Crisis. Here are the results for high yield bonds and some comparative indices if you
chose that time to invest:

 Annualized Returns Following All-Time Tight U.S. High Yield Bond Spread
 ICE BofA U.S. ICE BofA U.S. Bloomberg U.S.
 High Yield Index Treasury Index Aggregate Index

 Source: ICE, Bloomberg
 Note: BofA U.S. High Yield Index all-time tight gov't OAS spread (241 bps) recorded on June 1, 2007

The one-year return on high yield bonds shows, unsurprisingly, that if you buy a risky asset at the
height of its popularity and immediately encounter one of the worst financial crises the world has
seen, your initial experience won't be good. Thus, in the first year following the purchase at the low on
spreads, high yield bonds underperformed Treasurys by 11.3 percentage points and the U.S. Aggregate
Bond Index by 8.7 percentage points. But note that the high yield bond investor still lost very little
money, thanks to the receipt of interest! (At Oaktree, we call this "the power of the coupon.")

High yield bonds didn't pull ahead of Treasurys and the Aggregate until the five-year mark, but over the
10- and 15-year periods, they outperformed those indices by about 3 percentage points per year despite
having been bought at the worst possible moment spread-wise. Of course, managers able to navigate
defaults in the high yield universe would have achieved even better returns. As the above data shows,
narrow spreads at purchase are far from synonymous with sub-par performance in the medium-to-
long term.

The bottom line for me - as I tell anyone who asks - is that you can't eat spread, or spend spread,
or pay pension benefits with spread. For those things, you need returns. Spreads have to be assessed to
ensure they'll be adequate to offset credit losses, but in the end, it's the total return that matters.

Contractual Returns

A good part of the reason for the ability of high yield bonds to perform even when spreads have
been historically tight, as shown above - and for investors' ability to ignore the spread tightening
that has taken place to date, as I argue - stems from the contractual nature of bond returns. You
buy a bond at a given yield to maturity, which could incorporate an anemic yield spread. And if investors
decide later to demand increased default protection, the spread will widen and - all else being equal - the
price of the bond will decline. But as long as the issuer pays interest and principal as promised, the
price decline brought on by spread widening has only a temporary effect. When you're repaid at
par, you'll have received the yield you expected, regardless of price fluctuations experienced in the
meantime, including declines related to spread widening. The bottom line is one that applies to all
bonds: if you hold to maturity and the bonds pay, you receive the yield you signed up for. I've written so
much about this that I'm not going to belabor it further (see my memo Ruminating on Asset Allocation,
October 2024), but I'm always available to talk.

(Before the bond pros jump down my throat, I'll admit that the foregoing is less than 100% accurate.
There are three components in bond returns, not two. Everyone knows about the interest payments and
the movement of price to par at maturity. But there's a third: the interest earned from reinvesting the
annual interest payments, better known as "interest on interest," and thanks to the power of long-term
compounding, this is a major matter on 20- or 30-year bonds. The standard yield-to-maturity calculation
assumes interest receipts are reinvested at the yield in effect at time the calculation is performed (for
example, at purchase), but that's a simplifying assumption, and the reality may well be different. No one
wants to see the price of a bond one owns decline. But the truth is that if the bond price declines, the
yield rises, meaning interest payments received can be reinvested at a higher rate than was anticipated.
Thus, surprisingly, interim price declines can raise the overall return earned from holding a bond
to maturity.)

What About Private Credit?

This is today's other FAQ, along with the one about spreads. A lot of people have questions about private
credit, which makes one wonder how the sector can be seeing such strong capital inflows. My responses
generally go like this:

 • Like anything else, there are pros and cons. The most obvious pro is that, to compensate for
 the lack of liquidity, private credit offers higher yields than public credit. The second is that
 private credit managers are able to offer funds (and thus returns) that are levered, which isn't true
 of most public credit funds. The main negative stems from the absence of a market for the loans,
 and thus their illiquidity and the difficulty of actively managing holdings. Further, because
 there's no market, private credit can't actually mark to market. A final negative is that the fees
 are higher on private credit investing than on public credit, often including an incentive fee.

 • What about the lack of marking to market, and the resulting low level of volatility? It's
 obviously unrealistic to think the value of private loans doesn't fluctuate. But on the other hand,

 it seems many people consider the non-marking to market a plus, in that they can report that their
 investments didn't go down much in a difficult environment. Private credit managers are
 supposed to mark their holdings to reality based on fundamentals, but that's clearly less volatile
 (and less objective) than marking to a market. On the other hand, is it desirable that public asset
 prices reflect every up and down of investor psychology? Not marking to market may be
 unrealistic, but it may be welcome. (Investors in public securities could have the same
 experience if they refused to read the newspapers and tossed their brokerage statements in the
 drawer, but such behavior would be called irresponsible.)

 • For me, the most important observation about private credit is that it mostly emerged since 2011
 in response to banks' reduced lending activity after the Global Financial Crisis. Since then, the
 economy has witnessed an unusually long string of years without a recession (if you don't count
 the two-month Covid 19-related recession that flared up and was reversed in mid-2020). To
 paraphrase Warren Buffett, the tide has never gone out on private credit, meaning we
 haven't had an opportunity to see its flaws. As far as I'm concerned, the main one is the
 possibility that some managers have been in such a hurry to scoop up capital and put it to work -
 so they could come back for more - that they relaxed their credit standards and failed to demand a
 sufficient margin of safety. If there's ever another difficult period in the economy and the market,
 we'll see the result. Note: this isn't a sweeping concern about the loans themselves, just a
 question about the behavior of individual managers.

 • Connected to the above (and to the absence of marking to market), we don't know what'll
 happen if and when a difficult environment does arrive. Is there a limit on the ability of
 managers to keep marks too high? Is it right for fund returns to ignore deteriorated
 fundamentals? Can managers avoid recognizing credit difficulties by granting forbearances and
 "kicking the can down the road"? For how long? Are there ill effects on fund investors in the
 meantime? Since private credit managers are mostly unregulated, will the truth come out?
 Which truth? Questions like these also are answered only when the tide goes out.

 • Lastly, I don't believe private credit represents a systemic risk. People have been on the
 lookout for systemic risk ever since the GFC, in which troubled banks brought trouble to other
 banks and took them down. My belief is that the risk in private credit isn't systemic, since (a)
 private loan portfolios and their owners aren't levered nearly as much as banks were in 2007-08
 and (b) there isn't the same level of interconnectedness, or "counterparty risk," since the holders
 haven't sold each other default protection and other forms of hedging, like banks did before the
 GFC. There are those who believe some holders of private credit have multiple layers of
 leverage, which could increase the risk in a downside scenario, but I have no way of knowing.

The bottom line for me is that the return premium on private credit relative to public credit seems roughly
fair given the merits. Extra return is a good thing, but the downside related to the lack of liquidity and
resulting difficulty in actively managing holdings is a real consideration. All else equal, I would suggest
employing a combination of the two.

Credit Versus Equities

I've written about equity valuations - primarily referencing the Standard & Poor's 500 - as recently as
this January in my memo On Bubble Watch. Suffice it to say that, according to past data, from p/e ratios
like today's, the S&P has historically produced ten-year returns averaging between -2% and 2% per year,

and some investment banks have expressed expectations that are similarly in the low to mid-single digits.
Obviously, today's expected returns on credit are considerably higher.

On January 27, an article on the front page of The Wall Street Journal said the following: "Stocks haven't
looked this unattractive, by at least one measure, since the aftermath of the dot-com era." This wasn't a
reference to the elevated p/e ratio, but to the fact that the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is higher
than the "earnings yield" on the S&P 500 stock index. (The earnings yield is the ratio of earnings to
price, the inverse of the p/e ratio.) This doesn't prove that bonds are going to beat stocks in the years
ahead, but it's one more argument. And if Treasurys are poised to out-yield the S&P 500, high yield
bonds will do so to an even greater extent (assuming credit losses don't exceed the historical experience).

As I've written in other memos recently, the current level of offered yields implies higher returns from
credit than the S&P 500, with returns that are contractual and thus subject to much less variability
and uncertainty. This is true despite the return contraction that has been brought on by the swing from
pessimism to optimism over the last two years, and even given today's narrow spreads.

 * * *

The bottom line is that credit presently offers a better deal than equities (to the extent the S&P 500 is
representative of equities), even at today's spreads. Credit isn't a giveaway today, but it offers healthy
absolute returns and is fairly priced in relative terms. This is true despite the narrowness of yield
spreads. These observations aren't limited to high yield bonds. They also apply to senior loans,
mezzanine debt, asset-backed loans, CLOs, and private lending.

We'd rather buy at higher yields and wider spreads, and we may get a chance to do so . . . or not.
But that preference in itself isn't a reason for not increasing allocations to credit today.


Memo: Nobody Knows (Yet Again).

On Monday, September 15, 2008, shortly after the close of the New York Stock Exchange, Lehman
Brothers surprised the world by filing for bankruptcy. This came on the heels of rescues/bankruptcies of
Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch and was followed quite soon by more of the same at Wachovia,
Washington Mutual, and AIG. Market participants quickly concluded that the U.S. financial sector was
likely to melt down. It was now patently obvious (unlike a few days earlier) that financial institutions
might fall like dominoes due to the combination of (a) financial deregulation, (b) a manic housing boom,
(c) unwise mortgage lending, (d) the structuring of mortgages into thousands of tranched securities that
were rated too high, (e) investment in these securities on the part of highly levered banks, and (f)
"counterparty risk" resulting from the banks' interconnectedness. This thesis couldn't be refuted, and as a
result, the markets embarked on what felt like a downward spiral without end.

I thought I should comment on these developments and the outlook, and the result was a memo called
Nobody Knows, published four days later. I affirmed my ignorance of the future as usual, but to an even
greater degree given that all prior expectations had been upended. Nobody knew - especially me -
whether the spiral could be arrested. Nevertheless, I concluded that we had to assume it would, and thus
that we should plow money into financial assets at their highly discounted prices.

There was nothing anyone could say they "knew," and that included me. I was limited to gaming out my
conclusions, which were as follows:

 • we can't confidently predict the end of the world,
 • we'd have no idea what to do if we knew the world would end,
 • the things we'd do to gird for the end of the world would be disastrous if it didn't end, and
 • most of the time the world doesn't end.

Clearly, I didn't base these conclusions on knowledge of the future. But I saw no logical choice other
than to start putting money to work, including the $10 billion that was sitting uninvested in Opportunities
Fund VIIb. We had formed that fund to prepare for an elevated opportunity in distressed debt. How
could we not follow through when one arrived? And yet, we admittedly had no idea what the future
would bring.

I can't claim to have analyzed the future. In fact, I consider the phrase "analyze the future" one of the
great oxymorons. The future has not yet been created, and it's subject to millions of complex,
unquantifiable, and unknowable factors that will always be in flux. You can ponder the future and
speculate about it, but there's nothing to "analyze" and certainly there wasn't in the early days of the
Global Financial Crisis.

In March 2020, I reused the title of the 2008 memo for Nobody Knows II, my first memo during the
Covid-19 pandemic. In it, I cited Harvard epidemiologist Marc Lipsitch, who said we usually make
decisions on the basis of (a) facts, (b) informed extrapolations from analogous experiences, and (c)
opinion or speculation. But since there were no applicable facts regarding a Covid pandemic and no
analogous experiences, we were left with only speculation.

I want to say right here about 2008 and the other crises I've invested through - as well as today -
that I don't reach my conclusions with confidence or act without trepidation. There's absolutely no
place for certainty in the world of investing, and that's particularly true at turning points and during
upheavals. I'm never sure my answers are right, but if I can reason out what's most logical, I feel I have
to move in that direction.

The Uncertain Outlook

In my February memo 2024 in Review, which went only to clients, I said the word to describe the Trump
administration was "uncertainty." President Trump's thinking seems less predictable than that of most
presidents, largely because it doesn't necessarily hew to a consistent ideology, and it's very much subject
to being applied and revised tactically. It should be noted, however, that Trump has complained about
how the U.S. is treated in world trade and argued in support of tariffs since at least 1987. Having said
that, and even though we knew he was going to hike tariffs, no one anticipated the magnitude of the
increases. Clearly the markets hadn't.

Last week's events remind us of the events of 2008 and the Global Financial Crisis they produced. All
norms have been overthrown. The way world trade has operated for the last 80 years may be of little
relevance to the future. The impact on economies and the world at large is entirely unpredictable. We're
faced with large-scale decisions, yet again there are no facts or prior experiences on which to base those
decisions. Truly nobody knows, and a lot of this memo will be about things we can't know for sure. But
I hope it'll help you organize and evaluate the issues.

I want to point out that there are no experts on the subject at hand. Economists have analytical tools and
theories to apply, but no economist and no tool will produce a conclusion in this instance that we can
follow with confidence. There have been no large-scale trade wars in the modern era; thus, the theories
are untested. Investors, businesspeople, academics, and government leaders will all give advice, but none
of them is much more likely to be right than the average intelligent observer. The things on which
everyone will agree are obvious, like the likelihood of higher prices. The less obvious truths will be
harder to discern.

One of the things I insist on is that even for someone who deals with the future via forecasts, a forecast
isn't enough. In addition to a forecast, you have to have a good sense for the probability your
forecast is correct. In this case, under these circumstances, it must be accepted that forecasts are
even less likely to prove correct than usual.

Why? Primarily because of the vast number of unprecedented unknowns involved in the current
matter, which has the potential to turn into the biggest economic development in our lifetimes.
There's no such thing as foreknowledge here, just complexity and uncertainty, and we must accept that as
true. This means that if we insist on achieving certainty or even confidence as a precondition for
action, we'll be frozen into inaction. Or, I dare say, if we conclude we've reached decisions with
certainty or confidence, we'll probably be mistaken. We must make our decisions in the absence of
those things.

But we also have to bear in mind that deciding not to act isn't the opposite of acting; it's an act in
itself. The decision to not act - to leave a portfolio unchanged - should be scrutinized as critically as a
decision to make changes. The old saws that are the refuge of terrified investors - "we're not going to try
to catch a falling knife" and "we should wait for the dust to settle and the uncertainty to be resolved" -
cannot in themselves be allowed to determine our behavior. I love the title of a book by a market

analyst named Walter Deemer: "When the Time Comes to Buy, You Won't Want To." The negative
developments that make for the greatest price declines are terrifying, and they discourage buying. But,
when unfavorable developments are raining down, that's the optimal time to step up.

Lastly, given Trump's tactical focus, it's important to bear in mind that absolutely everything is
subject to change. It shouldn't surprise anyone if he extracts concessions and declares victory . . .
or if he responds to other countries' retaliation by escalating further. Thus, I told a Wharton
conference on Friday that if anyone thinks they know what a given tariff rate will be three months from
now, I'll bet good money they're wrong - even without knowing what they think the answer is.

Tariffs

What are President Trump's reasons for enacting his tariffs, and are they valid? On the day of the
announcement, I heard a TV commentator credit Trump's "impulses" as having some justification. What
are his goals? They include some or all of the following:

 • support U.S. manufacturing
 • encourage exports
 • discourage imports
 • shrink or eliminate our trade deficit
 • make supply chains more secure through onshoring
 • deter unfair trade practices aimed at the U.S.
 • force other countries to the negotiating table
 • generate revenue for the U.S. Treasury

It must be acknowledged that every one of these things is desirable in itself and a logical result of
tariffs.

If only it were that easy. The problem is that in the real world, and especially in economics, there are
second- and third-order consequences that must be considered. If there weren't, economics would be
dependable like the physical sciences, as in "if you do A, then B happens." As theoretical physicist
Richard Feynman said, "imagine how much harder physics would be if electrons had feelings." Well,
economies and markets are made up almost entirely of people, and people do have feelings, rendering
reactions unpredictable. In economics, others will react to action A, as well as to result B that action A
produces, and we have to think about the effect of those reactions. Not only are repercussions often
significant, but they're also unpredictable. Further, politics plays a particularly significant and
unpredictable role in the matter at hand, with a calculus all its own.

What are some of the likely consequences of Trump's tariffs? The list is long, and many are particularly
serious:

 • retaliation by other countries
 • price increases and rising inflation
 • destruction of demand due to price increases and declining consumer confidence
 • recession and lost jobs, both in the U.S. and around the world
 • supply shortages
 • a massive change in the world order

There are many threads to follow, and if I try to do them all justice, we'll be here forever. I'll just touch
on a few.

Some countries will negotiate - after all, in most cases, to borrow Trump's terminology, the U.S. is
"holding the best cards." But others won't, perhaps because their leaders will insist on looking strong,
leading to escalation. Higher "reciprocal tariffs" are unlikely to accomplish anything positive on balance
and will probably make life worse for both parties. It will be of scant satisfaction if the incremental
problems we encounter are less bad than those befalling other nations.

There is little doubt that the tariffs will raise prices. Tariffs are taxes on imports, and someone has to pay
them. This is true in the case of goods brought in from abroad, as well as goods made in the U.S. that
incorporate imported materials or components. This means the effect will be widespread. While it's the
importer who pays the tariff at the border, the cost is usually passed on to the ultimate purchaser of the
goods, the consumer. In theory, the manufacturer, exporter, exporting country, or importer can choose to
absorb the tax to preserve their business, but they won't be eager to cut into their profits to do so, and in
many cases their profit margins aren't high enough to allow them to do so.

Note that in my March 2022 memo, The Pendulum in International Affairs, I observed that between
1995 and 2020, U.S. consumer durable prices declined by 40% in real terms and total inflation averaged
only 1.8% per year. Consumer durables consist mostly of vehicles, appliances, and electronics, and a
big percentage of these have been imported. What would inflation have been if low-cost imports
were discouraged or precluded?

But let's assume the first three goals listed above are actually achieved, causing more of the goods
purchased in the U.S. to be made in the U.S.:

 • First, in most cases, there isn't sufficient manufacturing capacity that can be switched on. For
 example, I doubt there's a factory in the U.S. capable of producing flat screens for TVs or
 computers. It would take years to build enough capacity to satisfy a meaningful percentage of
 U.S. demand, meaning in the interim there would be shortages and/or selling prices would likely
 be at the old levels plus the tariffs.
 • Second, the new factories designed to bring back manufacturing jobs would take years to permit
 and build, and the cost of construction would have to be justified by an expectation of profits
 many years out in the future. Are CEOs likely to commit to those investments based on tariffs
 that might be subject to renegotiation (or discontinuation when a new administration takes
 office)? Bear in mind that Trump's 25% tariff on Mexican and Canadian goods replaced the
 United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement he negotiated during his first term and that went into
 effect in 2020, which in turn replaced NAFTA, which was enacted in 1994.
 • Third, there probably aren't enough skilled workers available in the U.S. to take the place of all
 those in China and the developing world who presently make goods for us.
 • Fourth, why have Americans been buying imports in the first place? Because they're
 cheaper. Why did the U.S. lose the jobs it lost? Because American workers were paid more than
 workers elsewhere for the same job, but U.S. products weren't good enough to justify higher
 selling prices. That's why the U.S. went from importing 330 Volkswagens in 1950 to more than
 400,000 in 2012. It wasn't that U.S. tariffs were too low. The simple truth is that foreign goods
 often cost less than comparable goods made in the U.S.

Even if tariffs are set high enough in the future to render U.S.-made goods cheaper than imports-cum-
tariffs, the price of the goods will be higher in the absolute than those of a week ago. Prices are virtually
certain to be higher for U.S.-made goods than those of the imports Americans have been buying.

Since most Americans have little income left over after paying for necessities, the result of higher prices
is likely to be declining standards of living. That's true unless wages rise as fast as prices, but in that
unlikely case we're talking about a dangerous inflationary spiral.

Higher prices are likely to result in lower unit sales, and thus in declining profit margins. My favorite
economist (there's an oxymoron for you), Conrad DeQuadros of Brean Capital, considers corporate profit
margins to be the best leading indicator of recessions. When margins come under pressure, corporations
engage in layoffs and other forms of cost-cutting, often leading to economic downturns.

And again, there's the complexity of economic cause and effect. It's widely reported these days (I have
no idea how reliably) that when tariffs were imposed on imported steel in 2018, 1,000 jobs were saved in
the U.S. steel industry. But 75,000 jobs were lost (or potential new employees weren't hired) in U.S.
steel-using industries. Similarly, as I wrote in the memo Economic Reality in May 2016:

 How will the interests of the 3.2 million Americans estimated to have lost their
 manufacturing jobs to China be balanced against the hundreds of millions who would
 have to pay considerably more for imported goods? Not an easy question.

Economics is the science of choices and is fraught with trade-offs. That's certainly true in the area of
trade and tariffs.

The International Picture

The impact of the developments on tariffs extends importantly to the international arena and goes well
beyond economics. Global trade has had an enormous beneficial effect on the entire world since the end
of World War II. Along with expenditures to rebuild after the war, technological and managerial progress,
improvements in infrastructure, and the expansion of capital markets, globalization contributed to a
rising economic tide that truly lifted all boats. Some countries and some people did better than others,
of course, but virtually everyone was better off. I believe it was because of this, among other things, that
we've generally enjoyed peace and prosperity for the last 80 years. As a result, we've been privileged
to live in the best period in history.

The main benefit from globalization is called "comparative advantage." Every country has some things it
produces better and/or cheaper, and others where the reverse is true. If every country makes the former
products and sells them to the rest of the world, and buys the latter products from other countries,
collective welfare is maximized thanks to increased overall efficiency. As I said on Bloomberg TV on
Friday, we're all better off because Italy makes the pasta and Switzerland makes the watches. But if trade
barriers were to require Italy to make its own watches and Switzerland to make its own pasta, the citizens
in both countries would probably end up paying more for products they used to buy from abroad, or
consuming lesser products made locally, or both.

U.S. citizens in particular have benefitted massively from the fact that most things can be made more
cheaply in other countries - and especially developing nations - because wages are lower. This has cost
the U.S. a few million jobs, but it has also allowed virtually all Americans to live much better than they
would have if they had been limited to buying U.S.-made goods. That's the simple reason why most of
the non-food merchandise at Walmart is imported.

To cite one more factor that has made the world a better place, I describe the behavior of the U.S. in the
post-World War II period as "generosity toward the rest of the world stemming from enlightened

self-interest." Under the Marshall Plan, we gave (not loaned) billions of dollars with which Western
Europe rebuilt. Likewise, between 1945 and 1952, General Douglas MacArthur oversaw the
reconstruction of Japan and the strengthening of its economy. Since then, the U.S. has (a) distributed
extensive foreign aid, (b) invested heavily in healthcare in developing nations, (c) created programs that
bring foreign students to the U.S. and vice versa, and (d) beamed positive messages to people throughout
the world. These are all instances of generosity. In each "transaction," we gave more than we directly
got, and a cynic might say we acted like suckers.

Yes, these things can be described as largesse, but as the National Archive puts it, the Marshall Plan
"provided markets for American goods, created reliable trading partners, and supported the development
of stable democratic governments in Western Europe." That's a pretty good payoff. People in other
countries received lots of freebies, but certainly these programs helped the U.S. by restraining
communism, bringing nations into defensive alignment with the U.S., and contributing to the U.S.'s
position as the world's most prosperous nation.

Please note that it's not impossible to throw this process into reverse:

 • We can antagonize our trading partners and cause our allies to feel like they're being bullied and
 extorted.
 • We can force countries that have depended on us for capital and other forms of assistance to look
 to China and Russia for these things instead.
 • We can convince the rest of the world to invest less in the U.S. and less in U.S. Treasurys.

The first two points can cost us important allies and cause nations to look less favorably on democracy.
As my friend Michael Smith says, "You can't antagonize and influence at the same time." And the third
point can dramatically influence the U.S.'s fiscal position.

To date, the world's high opinion of the U.S. economy, rule of law, and fiscal solidity has allowed us to
hold a "golden credit card," where there's no credit limit and no bill ever comes. This enabled the U.S. to
run fiscal deficits in each of the last 25 years and all but four of the last 45, including trillion-dollar-plus
deficits in each of the last five years. In other words, we've been able to live beyond our means, with
the federal government spending more than it takes in via taxes and fees. This has led to one of the worst
things about the U.S.: the $36 trillion national debt and the grossly irresponsible behavior in Washington
that caused it.

Since I don't expect Washington to suddenly begin to behave responsibly and live with balanced budgets,
I'm left to wonder how much longer we can count on that golden credit card.

 • Might other countries become less willing to buy U.S. Treasurys? Might they conclude that our
 fiscal management is unreliable?
 • Even if we remain the world's best credit, might they cut back on purchases out of worry, spite, or
 political motivation?
 • What would happen if a Treasury auction failed? (I imagine the Fed would buy the unsold
 securities, but I'm uncomfortable about it creating the money to do so by crediting banks with
 deposits with which to buy. In the end, where does the money come from?)
 • Will we remain the world's best credit if the dollar comes to be less accepted as the world's
 reserve currency?
 • What would happen to the deficit - and thus the national debt - if buyers demand higher interest
 rates on Treasurys?

Going all the way back to World War II and longer, the U.S. has been "holding the cards." Trump
believes in the strength of the U.S. and in cashing in on it. That's what his moves on tariffs amount to: no
longer "throwing the party" for the rest of the world. No longer generosity in the hope of long-term
benefits, but rather transactions in which we extract fair value.

I've received a lot of kind responses to Friday's appearance on Bloomberg TV, and I'm going to use a
comment from a viewer to bring us to a conclusion on this subject:

 In the 1980s, people like [current Trump economic advisor] Peter Navarro decided that
 Japan pulling ahead of the US in autos threatened the future of the U.S.

 Japan did indeed pull ahead and never looked back.

 The U.S. economy has more than doubled in size relative to Japan since then. It has
 doubled even after allowing for population changes and currency strength. It doubled in
 spite of losing the lead in autos, or is it that it doubled partly because of it? The
 margins on computer software and jet engines are probably a good deal higher than on
 mass-market automobiles. (Emphasis added)

Japan exploited its advantages in producing autos, and the U.S. moved on to things in which it could
achieve an advantage of its own. Isn't that exactly the way things should work in dynamic
economies? As I asked in a memo in September, is it a good idea for nations to try to repeal or resist the
laws of economics in an effort to make it otherwise?

The Bottom Line

I consider the tariff developments thus far to be what soccer fans call an "own goal" - a goal
scored for the other side when a defender accidentally puts the ball into his own team's net. In this way,
they're highly analogous to Brexit, and we know how that turned out. Brexit cost the British mightily in
terms of GDP, morale, and alliances, and it harmed their reputation for governance and stability. All of
this damage was self-inflicted.

I like the way things have gone during my lifetime, which conveniently spans 99% of the post-war
period I've been discussing. Some of our government expenditures have certainly been misspent, both at
home and abroad, and our national debt is nothing to celebrate. But I've enjoyed living in a peaceful,
prosperous, and increasingly healthy world, and I'm not eager to see that change. Just a couple of
months ago, the U.S. economy was performing well, the outlook was positive, the stock market was
at an all-time high, and there was much talk about American exceptionalism. Now, if Trump's
tariffs are put into effect, the U.S. economy is likely to experience a recession sooner than otherwise
would have been the case, higher inflation, and extensive dislocation. Even if the tariffs are reversed
entirely, it's unlikely the other nations will dismiss this incident and conclude that they have nothing to
worry about in terms of relations with the U.S.

No one should rule out the achievement of some of the goals of tariffs listed on page 3. U.S.
manufacturing could increase, bringing new jobs and more dependable supply chains. Our treatment in
world trade could become fairer. And the Treasury's take could increase.

On the other hand, some of the hoped-for benefits are probably beyond reach. In particular, as for
reducing our trade deficit, the U.S. is unlikely to ever buy less from other countries than they buy from us

as long as the U.S. is bigger and more prosperous and thus has greater buying power. This will be
especially true as long as our workers are better paid, meaning most U.S.-made goods cost more than
goods produced elsewhere.

The hoped-for results might materialize, or the negative consequences might be felt, or some combination
of the two. Importantly, however, it must be noted that any gains that come are likely to arrive in the
long run, following a multi-year period of adjustment, whereas the costs will probably be felt almost
immediately.

And what about the financial markets? In the last few days there's been a massive shift in the economic
outlook and a huge stock market decline in reaction. As always, the key question surrounds the
appropriateness of the response to date: has it been just right, inadequate, or excessive? It's even harder
to answer that question than usual. On the one hand, if the tariffs remain as announced and
retaliation leads to an all-out trade war, the economic consequences could be truly dire. But on the
other hand, cooler heads (and highly negative political and stock-market reactions) could prevail,
causing the tariffs to be rolled back to less harmful levels, perhaps leading to a win for free trade.

How is the Fed likely to respond? The threat of recession might call for accelerated rate cuts to bolster
economic activity. Or the threat of inflation might cause rates to stay higher, with cuts postponed. Note,
however, that inflation-fighting measures such as higher rates are probably less likely to succeed against
inflation caused by the addition of tariffs to selling prices than they would be against the more typical
demand-driven inflation. Today's title is particularly applicable to the Fed's actions: certainly nobody
knows.

In Oaktree's markets, fear of defaults (not unfounded) has caused risk compensation in the form of yield
spreads to increase substantially, but a flight to the safety of U.S. Treasurys has caused Treasury prices to
increase and thus Treasury yields to decline. The net result has been a fair-sized net increase in the
available yields on credit. At the same time, we anticipate a higher incidence of distress and increased
demand for bespoke capital solutions, meaning we're likely to invest our latest opportunistic debt fund
faster than otherwise would have been the case.

To paraphrase Mark Twain, there are themes that rhyme throughout history. For that reason, just as I
recycled the title of my post-Lehman bankruptcy memo for this one, I'll also borrow its closing
paragraph:

 Everyone was happy to buy 18-24-36 months ago, when the horizon was cloudless and
 asset prices were sky-high. Now, with heretofore unimaginable risks on the table and
 priced in, it's appropriate to sniff around for bargains: the babies that are being thrown
 out with the bath water. We're on the case.

On a personal note, I was fortunate to visit investors in Montreal on the day of the tariff announcement
and in Toronto the day after. What a time for a trip to Canada! I started each meeting by saying I'm one
of the hundreds of millions of Americans who respect Canada and consider it a friend and ally. The
reception was stirring. This is a good time for all of us to connect with our fellow citizens of the
world.


Memo: More on Repealing the Laws of Economics.

Last September, I wrote a memo titled Shall We Repeal the Laws of Economics? in which I described
economies as organic entities that operate on their own pursuant to some underlying laws. The best
known is the law of supply and demand: in general, people will buy more of something as the price goes
down and produce more of it as the price goes up. Another has to do with incentives: in general, people
will allocate resources (such as their labor) to the activities for which they will be best rewarded. These
and the rest of the rules are straightforward, and it doesn't take a Ph.D. to understand them. In fact,
they're part of human nature.

But governments sometimes want outcomes different than those a free-functioning economy will
produce. To that end, they enact rules and regulations designed to override the laws of economics. Some
governments even go so far as to adopt socialism or communism, creating economies where government
commands take over entirely from the laws of economics.

Rent Control

A prime example discussed in my September memo was rent control. When demand for apartments
exceeds supply, it's only natural that rents will rise, perhaps eventually to the point where people who live
in a given location can't afford to continue doing so. But elected officials typically want to preserve
neighborhoods. They want their constituents to be able to continue renting apartments in their districts
and not lose out to others who can pay more. To deliver on this aspect of constituent service, they pass
laws to limit rent increases. Now people who otherwise couldn't afford to live in the jurisdiction can do
so. Those tenants are happy, and that makes the elected officials happy, as happy constituents tend to vote
for incumbents.

But not everyone is happy. Landlords are unhappy about not being able to charge the full rent they could
charge in a free market, so they stop investing in their apartments and sometimes take them off the
market. Developers who might be interested in building new apartments refrain from doing so out of
concern that they won't be able to earn a sufficient return. Also unhappy are people who would like to
live in that location and can afford to pay market rents but are unable to find vacant apartments because
they're occupied by people paying below-market rents.

There are at least two things wrong with this situation. The first is that governments are choosing
winners and losers, rather than letting market forces do so. In the case of rent control, the people who
occupy apartments (and potentially political incumbents) are the winners, but landlords, developers, and
people looking for apartments are the losers. The elected officials enacting rent control will say they're
only trying to produce fairness for existing occupants, but they're obviously treating others unfairly.

In addition, there are negative implications for society overall. Tenants living in rent-controlled
apartments enjoy a very valuable asset: a bargain-priced place to live. But there's no way to monetize
that asset; they can only enjoy the benefit by continuing to live there. For this reason, they tend not to
move, reducing mobility for themselves and everyone else. Rent control also discourages the upgrading
of existing apartments and the construction of new apartments, so the housing stock fails to keep up with

the needs of the community in terms of both condition and quantity. In other words, governments can
limit the rents landlords can charge for their apartments, but they can't make developers build new
ones. These things can reduce overall societal welfare and interfere with the movement of resources to
the use where they're most productive.

Fire Insurance in California

Most unfortunately, earlier this year, in the aftermath of the Southern California wildfires, we witnessed
an extreme economic consequence of overriding the laws of economics. When fires decimated the
communities of Pacific Palisades and Altadena, thousands lost their homes, including a dozen Oaktree
employees. On top of the severe disruption of all aspects of their lives, many of them are suffering
extremely negative financial consequences. This is because many were uninsured or underinsured, often
as a result of actions taken by California insurance regulators.

Most of California's government is firmly under the control of the Democratic party, which generally
leans toward a high level of activism in general and intervention in economic matters in particular.
Notably, because the Democrats hold a super-majority in the state legislature and have little fear of
potential Republican opponents, Democratic elected officials don't have to moderate their behavior to
pass legislation or hold on to their seats. And just like the support for rent control - there's a lot of that in
California, too - the government sought to help out homeowners by limiting the premiums companies
could charge for fire insurance.

In a sign of the times, I'll let my new (and AI-powered) editorial assistant, Perplexity, fill you in on
the background. I've simplified the format and added emphasis, but I haven't changed a word. What
follows below is pretty close to what I would have produced in an hour or two:

 Before the devastating fires of 2025, California's fire insurance market was already in a state of
 crisis, shaped by a combination of regulatory constraints, insurer withdrawals, and mounting
 wildfire risk.

 Insurers were prohibited from using forward-looking catastrophe models to set rates for wildfire
 risk. Instead, they were required by law to base their rates on historical average losses over the
 previous 20 years. This approach became increasingly problematic as wildfires grew more
 frequent and severe, making historical data a poor predictor of future risk. Regulations also
 prevented insurers from raising premiums to reflect increased reinsurance costs, further limiting
 their ability to price policies according to actual risk.

 Major insurers began withdrawing from the California market or ceasing to write new policies in
 fire-prone areas. Chubb stopped writing new policies for high-value homes in 2021, Allstate
 followed in 2022, and State Farm, the state's largest home insurer, stopped writing new policies in
 2023. In 2024, State Farm announced non-renewals for over 70,000 policies statewide, including
 thousands in high-risk areas like Pacific Palisades and Altadena, just months before the 2025
 fires. Other insurers, including Tokio Marine America and its subsidiaries, also exited the market

 Homeowners who managed to keep their policies often faced dramatic premium hikes. For
 example, some saw their annual premiums rise from $4,500 to $18,000. As a result, many
 property owners either lost coverage or could not afford to insure their properties, leading to

 widespread underinsurance. By the time of the 2025 fires, fewer than a quarter of affected
 properties were insured against fire.

 The state-backed FAIR Plan, intended as a last-resort insurance option, saw a surge in enrollment
 as private insurers withdrew. However, FAIR Plan coverage is limited and more expensive than
 private insurance, often requiring supplemental policies to achieve adequate protection. The
 FAIR Plan's exposure to wildfire risk increased dramatically, raising concerns about its solvency
 in the event of another catastrophic fire season.

 California law provided for a mandatory one-year moratorium on non-renewals and
 cancellations of residential insurance policies in areas affected by a declared state of
 emergency. This protection applied after major wildfires but did not prevent insurers from
 withdrawing or refusing to renew policies before such emergencies were declared.

 The regulatory approval process for rate changes became increasingly slow, with the average time
 for approval rising from 157 days (2013-2019) to 293 days (2020-2022). This lag contributed to
 insurer frustration and market instability.

As Perplexity notes, insurers were told they couldn't price fire policies to reflect increases in the
frequency and severity of forest fires. Likewise, they couldn't raise prices to pass through the higher
premiums their reinsurers were charging based on the increased frequency and severity.

If a $5 million house has a 1% probability of burning down in a given year and the insurance regulator
says you can only charge $25,000 per year for a fire policy, what will you do? (Note: I didn't need
Perplexity to tell me the insurance company faces an expected payout of $50,000 on that policy: 1% of $5
million.) The answer's simple: you don't write that policy.

The lesson here is the same as with rent control but rendered much more graphic by the catastrophic fires.
Just as with rents, you can limit the price insurers can charge for coverage, but you can't make
them provide coverage at that price. In this case, governmental efforts to enforce a non-free-market
solution deprived many of access to insurance, ultimately bringing misery to thousands.

Anything Else? Oh Yes: What About Tariffs?

That's 21⁄2 pages of prologue leading up to my main topic: tariffs. As we've had two months since
"Liberation Day" on April 2 to think about them, I'm going to attempt a complete discussion (and also try
to stay objective and apolitical).

First, what is a tariff? According to Merriam-Webster, it's "a schedule of duties imposed by a government
on imported or in some countries exported goods." In other words, it's a tax. The exporting company, the
exporting country, or the importing company might choose to pay some or all of the tariff, but only if
they're willing to spend money to maintain their market share in the importing country. Otherwise, the
tariff will be paid by the end-consumer in the form of a price increase.

Why is the U.S. raising tariffs? The reason for President Trump's pro-tariff stance is no doubt his long-
held conviction that our negative trade balance in goods (the amount by which our imports exceed our
exports - $1.2 trillion in 2024) is proof that foreign countries are ripping us off. As he puts it, "we're
losing $5 billion dollars a day on trade." I'll leave aside my insistence that international trade isn't a rip-
off in itself - it's literally a fair trade since the exporting country gets the money, and the importing

country gets the goods it desires. I'll also overlook the U.S.'s $290 billion positive trade balance in 2024
in services - things advanced countries would tend to sell, such as financial, communication, and
information services, along with intellectual property.

What are tariffs meant to achieve? On April 9, in my memo Nobody Knows (Yet Again), I guessed at
President Trump's goals in enacting them as follows:

 • support U.S. manufacturing
 • discourage imports
 • encourage exports
 • shrink or eliminate our trade deficit
 • make supply chains more secure through onshoring
 • deter unfair trade practices aimed at the U.S.
 • force other countries to the negotiating table
 • generate revenue for the U.S. Treasury

As I also wrote, every one of these eight goals is desirable in itself and something tariffs should bring
about. Essentially, raising the cost of imported goods - and that's what tariffs do - should be a step in all
these directions. The important question in economics is what other effects there might be.

Let me digress a minute for a primer on trade. Assume there are two countries with a wall between them.
In Country A, workers make $100 an hour and a car costs $50,000. In Country B, workers make $50 an
hour and the same car costs $35,000. Because there's no cross-border trade, all remains well and good.
But if the wall comes down, some enterprising businessperson will ship cars from Country B to Country
A, where they'll sell like hotcakes at a price of $36,000 (adding in $1,000 for transportation). Highly
unequal wages and prices - examples of what economists call disequilibria - can't persist if things
like labor and goods are mobile. That's trade at work. Thus, over time, workers will move from
Country B to Country A for the higher wages. That will cause wages in Country A to come down (more
workers available) and wages in Country B to go up (fewer workers available) and, eventually, Country
B's cars to no longer be cheaper. Tariffs are like the wall posited above. They impede foreign
competition, enabling domestic manufacturers to sell their products even if they represent an
inferior bargain.

Let's say we accomplish the first two goals listed above, both of which are among the foreseeable results
of what's called "protectionism," because tariffs protect domestic industries from encroachment from
abroad. If imports are rendered more expensive by tariffs - or if they're banned altogether by trade
barriers - domestic manufacturers face reduced competition from imports. That's good for domestic
manufacturers and their workers, but what else happens? First, prices might rise; there are already reports
of domestic manufacturers raising prices under the umbrella of higher import prices. Second, they may
begin producing inferior goods because they don't have to compete against imports. Third, because they
don't have to worry about competition from low-paid workers in foreign countries, domestic workers are
able to form strong labor unions and demand high wages, further adding to the cost of domestic goods.
Thus, consumers pay more than they would if imports were unconstrained, and the volume of
exports may actually decline, since domestic producers might become globally uncompetitive.

Is the U.S. Right to Raise Tariffs?

When I was a boy, the phrase "foreign car" was practically an oxymoron. The first two Volkswagens
came to America in 1949. They were among roughly 7,500 cars imported that year, representing only

0.03% - that's three one-hundredths of a percent - of all cars sold in the U.S. But in 2024, according to a
fact sheet published by the White House in March, half the 16 million vehicles sold in the U.S. were
imports, and they included 500,000 Volkswagens (usimportdata.com). Why?

There were a number of reasons for the success of the foreign manufacturers, including quality,
engineering and marketing, but one main reason was that consumers concluded that cars made in
the U.S. were more expensive than foreign cars but not correspondingly better. (My first car, an
Oldsmobile Cutlass, cost $3,200 in 1965, and a Volkswagen Beetle cost just half as much.) U.S. auto
workers were able to command higher wages than those paid in Germany or Japan, plus a unique fringe
benefit package including lifetime medical care, which was said in 2008 to amount to $1,900 per
car. This represented a tremendous competitive burden. Sales of cars made in the U.S. were brisk until
the rise of international trade brought imports to our shores, at which point the imports imposed economic
reality upon the Big Three U.S. auto makers, with their higher cost structures and dated products. (It must
be noted that Volkswagen's success in penetrating the U.S. market is said to have been aided by subsidies
from the German government.)

The result was lost sales for domestic producers and the movement of production overseas. Could this
have been avoided? Only if U.S. workers were willing to work at wages comparable to those paid to
workers in other countries. Otherwise, the movement of jobs to foreign countries was probably
inevitable. U.S. automakers could have responded to the new foreign competition by improving quality
or boosting productivity, but it's unlikely they would be able to offset their higher cost structures in the
long run.

Niall Ferguson, the British economic historian, did an excellent podcast on April 10, just after the new
tariffs were introduced. In it, he said:

 Every single economy that industrialized, from the late 18th century through the 19th century into
 the 20th century, reached a peak at some point along the way, roughly when the per capita GDP
 reached $40,000 [presumably in today's dollars], after which manufacturing as a share of
 employment declined. And the decline is essentially identical for all developed economies, as
 people move out of working in factories and move into service-sector jobs, which are less
 physically demanding and require more education. So that happened everywhere. It wasn't just
 in the United States. . . .

In other words, progress takes countries up the curve from subsistence to prosperity, and along the way
they transition from agriculture- to manufacturing- to service-based economics. The success of the U.S.
economy caused many of its workers to leave the manufacturing sector. As a result, only 8% of our non-
farm jobs are in manufacturing today, down from about 30% in 1950. According to Ferguson's research,
that probably didn't have much to do with the automobile industry in particular or with unfair trade
practices applied by other nations. And it's probably not because people couldn't find jobs in
manufacturing: according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, there are about 400,000 job openings today in
U.S. manufacturing, and no one's rushing to fill them.

It stands to reason that a country cannot pull ahead of others in terms of per capita income and standard of
living and expect to continue as mainly a manufacturing economy. And neither can we return to being
one. Here's more from Niall Ferguson:

 We cannot go back to the 1950s, or for that matter to the 1910s, not socially, and not
 economically. There is not a world in which these policies could lead to the reindustrialization of

 the United States, because it is way more expensive to do manufacturing in this country than it is
 to do it practically anywhere else . . .

It can be appropriate for a government to decide that certain goods should be made domestically and
certain industries should be protected.

 • The obvious example is when national security is at stake. We might conclude that our military
 shouldn't buy defense materiel abroad, since we don't want to be dependent on foreign suppliers,
 especially those in countries that could be antagonists. If you need further persuasion, Joe Nocera
 wrote this in a May 6 article in The Free Press titled "The Intellectual Godfathers of
 Protectionism":

 If there was any doubt that America had put its security at risk in allowing the Chinese to
 take over so much manufacturing, COVID put it to rest. A closer look showed that the
 US needed China to build its ships, to gain access to rare-earth minerals, to export its
 semiconductors and literally thousands of other necessary products. . . . [Quoting Rana
 Foroohar], "People finally woke up to the fact that 80 percent of our supply chain had
 been outsourced to our biggest strategic rival."

 • A tariff also might reasonably be enacted to protect an iconic industry that's important to national
 identity. The Swiss might want to bar imports of white cheese with holes in it, just as the French
 might prohibit importation of white wine with bubbles.

 • Lastly, tariffs might well be applied against countries that employ unfair trade practices, such as
 subsidizing their domestic producers and denying foreign companies access to their markets.
 Tariff hawks assert that other countries have been doing things like this for years, leading to our
 massive trade deficit.

Governments can opt to levy tariffs in cases like these, even if they interfere with the operation of the free
market. The argument we heard before the so-called Liberation Day was for "targeted tariffs" that would
be applied selectively to accomplish these goals. But that's different from taxing all goods from all
countries. Governments can't require everything to be made at home without consequences. Indeed, given
that the U.S. is bigger and richer than most other countries, isn't it inescapable that we'll buy more from
other countries than they'll buy from us?

Tariffs are, primarily, an effort to cause goods to be made domestically even when equivalent foreign goods
are cheaper or better (or both). Governments can make that happen by erecting barriers that keep foreign
goods out or make them more expensive. That protects domestic industries and domestic workers, but at
the expense of domestic consumers (and global welfare). That's a tradeoff - the kind of thing free
markets require and leaders who would mandate economic outcomes would prefer to ignore.

Any Other Laws We Can Dispense With?

I'll now leave the subject of repealing the laws of economics to comment briefly on our elected officials'
willingness to ignore them. I'll discuss two examples.

The first relates to fiscal discipline. In short, the U.S. government habitually spends more than it takes in,
and I think this is one of the very worst things going on in our country. As I mentioned in Nobody Knows

(Yet Again), the U.S. is able to do this because to date the world has given it virtually unlimited credit at
particularly low interest rates. The result has been fiscal deficits in 41 of the last 45 years and trillion-
dollar-plus deficits in all of the last five. If your brother-in-law behaved this way, you'd call him
irresponsible.

Economist John Maynard Keynes said in the 1930s that if an economy is growing too slowly to produce
the needed jobs, the government should engage in deficit spending. By doing so - putting more into the
economy through spending than it takes out in taxes - it stimulates economic growth and thus job
creation. And then, when prosperity is restored, the government should run a surplus - spending less than
it takes in - and pay down the debt. Today, U.S. politicians from both parties are in the habit of spending
without regard to the deficit, and the part about surpluses and paydowns has been forgotten. In fiscal year
2024, for example, the U.S. ran a deficit of roughly $1.8 trillion, or 6.4% of GDP, in a time of
prosperity.

If we continue to borrow and add to the national debt every year at a rate that exceeds the growth of GDP,
the interest bill at a constant interest rate will take up a bigger and bigger percentage of the budget, adding
to future deficits and debt. The interest bill will compound as a percentage of GDP, and so will the debt.
We already spend more on interest each year than on defense. And the interest bill will soar further if
rates rise in the future - whether in response to inflation or deterioration of the U.S.'s creditworthiness -
and maturing low-rate debt has to be replaced in a higher-rate environment. How long can we increase
debt faster than GDP?

No one can say when, but it makes sense to assume we'll eventually reach a point at which our credit is
no longer unlimited and our interest rates are no longer so low. As Warren Buffett said at the May 3
Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting:

 We're operating at a fiscal deficit now that is unsustainable over a very long period of time. We
 don't know whether that means two years or 20 years, because there's never been a country like
 the United States. But you know, this is something that can't go on forever . . . and it has the
 aspect to it that it gets uncontrollable at a certain point.

Fixing this won't be easy, as Buffett went on to say, because we've developed bad spending habits and
leaders have pandered to voters by keeping taxes low. There are only two possible parts to the solution:
curtail spending and/or expand revenues. No one wants to be taxed higher, and no one wants to see the
programs they benefit from reduced. Because what's required is austerity, all aspects of which are
unpleasant, few people in Washington genuinely pursue a solution. President Trump tried to cut
"waste, fraud and abuse" through Elon Musk and his Department of Government Efficiency, but the
potential savings went from $2 trillion to $1 trillion and ended up in the low hundreds of billions of
dollars at most, which is a relatively immaterial amount.

At the same time, the House of Representatives has passed a bill that would extend tax cuts that were
enacted in 2017 and supposed to end this year. Extending them would significantly increase the deficit
relative to what it would be if the cuts were permitted to expire as scheduled. In addition, the bill includes
some quirky revenue reducers, such as exempting overtime pay and tips from taxation and increasing the
standard deduction for senior citizens. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates the bill
will add an aggregate $2.4 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years. How could the House have passed
a bill in May 2025 that neither raised taxes nor cut spending? The rejoinder, as usual, is that the bill - and
especially the tax cuts - will stimulate the economy, causing the deficits and the debt to shrink as a
percentage of GDP. I think it's fair to say this tactic hasn't worked to date.

We're simply not tackling our deficits. We're not implementing meaningful spending cuts or tax
increases. The idea that spending shouldn't exceed revenues is completely out the window. George
F. Will listed nine tenets of progressivism in a May 28 article in The Washington Post, and one was
as follows: "limitless borrowing from future Americans to fund today's Americans' consumption of
government goods and services." I think that absolutely nails the thinking that guides all of
Washington, with the exception of the rare true fiscal conservative.

The same is true with regard to the funding of Social Security. Our Social Security program was designed
as a pay-as-you-go program, not a funded endowment that spins off benefit payments like a pension fund.
Your tax payments are used to pay benefits to people who are retired, and in the same way, your benefits
in retirement will come out of taxes paid by those working at that time. In the past, when many people
were working relative to the number who had retired, tax receipts exceeded benefit payments, and the
surplus accumulated in the Social Security Trust Funds.

Today, the problem is that the number of workers paying into Social Security has fallen relative to the
number of retirees taking out. In addition, retirees are living longer, but workers aren't paying taxes
longer. Thus, tax revenues coming in have fallen relative to benefit payments going out, and they are
insufficient to pay benefits. The difference is made up by drawing from the Trust Funds.

The math is simple: there are x dollars in the Trust Funds, and they earn interest at Treasury rates. By
projecting growth in the number of workers and retirees, benefit payments and life expectancies, you can
estimate with some confidence the year when, in the absence of corrective action, the Trust Funds will be
exhausted. That year is 2035. At that point, either (a) benefit payments will have to be cut so that they
equal tax receipts (and it's estimated that receipts will be sufficient to pay only 79% of the promised
benefits) or (b) the shortfall will have to be paid from the general U.S. government budget, further adding
to the deficit. Nothing in this paragraph is conjecture.

There are many options for solving this problem. They include the following:

 • raise the Social Security tax rate
 • increase the amount of earnings on which Social Security tax is paid (the current cap is $176,100)
 • raise the retirement age
 • shrink retirement benefits
 • reduce the cost-of-living adjustment
 • apply a means-based test, phasing out benefits as a retiree's income rises

The problem is that all the above would be wildly unpopular with voters. It's assumedly for that reason
that the two political parties have one thing they agree on: "hands off Social Security." Thus, it hasn't
been dealt with in over a decade. What would happen to executives in your organization who turned a
blind eye to such a foreseeable problem?

The members of the Baby Boomer generation to which I belong - people born between 1946 and 1964 -
are unusually numerous, disproportionately affluent and probably above average in tendency to vote.
Thus, they have significant political influence, having cast 38% of the votes in the 2020 presidential
election. All the Boomers are in or near retirement, and no politician wants to antagonize them. Thus,
elected officials can't stand the political heat associated with fixing Social Security, so they punt. As a
result, the insolvency of the Social Security Trust Funds is sure to occur only ten years or so from now.

Let's get personal. I started getting Social Security when I turned 70, the latest possible opportunity, and I
now receive $4,612 per month. That's ridiculous: I and other wealthy Boomers shouldn't get Social

Security benefits. As with the national debt, the problems associated with Social Security will be left for
our descendants to deal with. This is a matter of serious generational equity that deserves attention
but doesn't receive it.

Our elected officials may believe the status quo can be maintained forever, or more likely they count on
being out of office by the time the wheels come off. But certainly, they're not facing up to reality. The
behavior in Washington with regard to both the fiscal deficit and the precariousness of Social Security
remind me of the tale of the guy who jumped off the 20-story building. As he passed the 10th floor, he
said, "So far, so good."

 * * *

When allowed to function, the laws of economics provide incentives that encourage innovation,
productivity and efficiency, creating prosperity and optimizing overall welfare. For example,
globalization delivers the benefits of "comparative advantage," under which each country produces the
things it can make better and cheaper and, as a result, consumers everywhere enjoy the best possible
combination of quality and price. In the process, workers in the producing nations receive the highest
possible pay for their labor.

And when insurance companies are permitted to pursue business and price policies as they choose,
market competition will yield the best possible solution in terms of coverage that's available and fairly
priced.

Of course, optimizing overall welfare is different from ensuring that all individuals prosper.
Workers in a country that lacks comparative advantage may lose their jobs or see their wages decline if
not protected by tariffs and trade barriers. And buyers of insurance may pay more for coverage than they
would if insurance commissioners limited premiums.

The only way to strive for universal prosperity and "fairness" - no winners and losers - is for
government to mandate it. But the efforts to do so have never been successful, as described above
and in Shall We Repeal the Laws of Economics? It didn't work for the Soviet Union, and it didn't work
in shielding homeowners from the economic impact of the California wildfires.

The much better way is for governments to allow markets to operate freely and deal with undesirable side
effects. Examples include making sure a safety net gives workers who lose their jobs income support and
retraining, as well as making sure companies and countries don't engage in improper, anti-competitive
practices. Choosing to limit effects in this way may involve tradeoffs, with costs that a society can
reasonably decide to bear.

The bottom line on all the above is that free-market economies don't produce perfect solutions, but
efforts to significantly control them make things much worse. There can be no solution that gives
everyone what they want. All things considered, however, the laws of economics lead to the best
solutions that can be attained.


Memo: The Calculus of Value.

On July 28, I flew to South America on a plane without Wi-Fi, leaving me without email or entertainment.
What was I to do but start in on a memo? Interestingly, the things I wrote during that flight turned out to
be the answers to many of the questions I received from clients after I landed, so writing what follows
served me well. I hope it'll do the same for you.

 * * *

January 2 of this year was the 25th anniversary of my memo bubble.com, the one that put my writing on
the map, and I marked the occasion by publishing another memo, called On Bubble Watch. While the
title may have raised concern for readers, my main conclusion was that the elevated U.S. stock market
valuations at the time didn't necessarily signal the existence of a bubble, mainly because I didn't detect
the extreme investor psychology I associate with bubbles. Security prices were "lofty but not nutty" is
how I put it. Because a lot has taken place in the seven months since then, it's time for an update on asset
values.

Before I start, please note that I'm talking about investing in general. My specific reference will be to
public U.S. corporate securities - stocks and bonds - since they mark to market regularly and are the
assets that most enter my consciousness. But since investors' actions toward one group of assets and the
resulting price movements influence other assets and other markets - and since they ensue largely from
investor psychology, which is highly contagious - I think my comments are probably applicable to other
asset classes, to private assets as well as public ones, and possibly to markets outside the U.S.

I'll start by laying out where I think investment value comes from and how it should be assessed. I don't
think I've ever done this before in this form. It's a big topic, but I'll try to cover it briefly.

Value

Investment assets - things such as stocks, bonds, companies, and buildings - have a value, which is
sometimes referred to as their "intrinsic value": what the asset is "worth" at a point in time. This
value is subjective. It can't definitively be found anywhere - not even by AI, as far as I know - and
opinions will differ as to what it is.

In my parlance, the value of an asset is derived from its "fundamentals." The fundamentals of a company,
for example, encompass a great many things. These include its current earnings, its earning power in the
future, the steadiness or variability of its future earnings, the market value of its component assets, the
skill of management, its potential to develop new products, the competitive landscape, the strength of its
balance sheet, and the myriad additional factors that will influence the company's future. Ultimately, the
totality of an asset's fundamentals constitute its earning power, which in turn is the source of its
value.

A company may own land, buildings, machinery, vehicles, and natural resources such as mineral deposits
or forests, and even facilities that allow it to derive electricity from river water or sunshine (which it
obviously doesn't own). These are tangible assets, and there's often a market for them and a realizable
price. But a company may also have assets that are intangible, such as patents, trade secrets, knowhow,
research capability, reputation and image, human talent, management skill, and culture. Some of these
may be transferable and salable, but others are not.

All the assets mentioned above have earning power individually, and in combination they create a
company's overall earning power. A company's earning power almost always exceeds the sum of the
earning power of each of its individual assets taken in isolation. Combining individual assets to
maximize a company's overall earning power is the top job of management. When successful, the result
is synergy: the benefit gained from skillfully combining things.

But not all assets have earning power (as I define it), and thus not all have calculable investment value. I
describe earning power as the money you can make by owning and operating an asset - that is, I omit
from "earnings" the possible gains from simply holding an asset and ultimately selling it. A diamond
ring, painting, or classic car doesn't produce earnings for its owner (short of renting it out or charging
people to look at it). For this reason, its economic potential comes exclusively from the possibility of
selling it at a profit. And the person who buys it is likely to be doing so in the hope of selling it to
someone else at a still-higher price . . . despite the fact that it won't produce earnings in the interim. I
think of assets that don't produce operating cash flow or have the potential to do so in the future as
not having earning power, and that makes them impossible to value objectively, analytically, or
intrinsically (see my 2010 memo about gold, All That Glitters).

Some earning power is current and produces income today. The result can be seen in this year's financial
statements: the income that today's assets are producing in their current configuration and under today's
conditions. Other earning power exists in the form of potential: for example, the income that will be
earned when today's holdings of natural resources are exploited in the future, or the income that will be
generated from new products developed by the company's employees from its intellectual property. The
result will be dependent on the environment that unfolds, which in turn will be influenced by decisions
made by company management, competitors, customers, governments, and even investors.

Assets can be tangible or intangible, and an asset's earning power can produce earnings today and
also in the future in amounts that might be higher or lower than today. Together, an asset's current
earnings, plus its power to produce earnings in the future, constitute its key fundamentals. Some
investors emphasize paying a reasonable price for today's earning power, and others are willing to bet on
what they see as potential growth in earning power. Regardless, I think prudent investing has to be
based on judgments regarding an asset's present and future earning power. Once an investor has
determined an asset's intrinsic value in this way, he will have a basis for establishing a "right" price
that will allow for good returns in the future.

Price

While value can seem theoretical and ephemeral, price is concrete. It's the amount you pay to
obtain something. Ultimately, as indicated above, doing a good job of investing comes down to
estimating value appropriately and purchasing that value at a reasonable price.

As mentioned above, there are a great many things that combine to make up an asset's fundamentals.
Ultimately, they can be boiled down to its earning power, and it's from earnings that value is derived. In

the late 1960s, I was taught at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business that the right
price for an asset is the discounted present value of its future cash flows or earnings. You might
object: What about all the other things listed above, such as a company's plant and equipment, intellectual
property, and management, and even its reputation? Don't they have value? The value of all of these
things is derived from their ability to contribute to the company's earning power, and thus it's captured in
the earnings calculation.

The key part of a security analyst's job consists of arriving at earnings projections. Then those
projections have to be converted into a fair price. At the University of Chicago, the discounting process
was purely mathematical: you divide the earnings for each year in the future by (1+r)n, where r is the
appropriate discount rate and n is the number of years out into the future the earnings are, and then you
total up the yearly results. But in the real world, price is set by a different discounting process, which
consists mostly of people applying their subjective opinions and attitudes about what the asset and
its earning power are worth.

So that's what an asset's price is: the consensus view of investors regarding its underlying
fundamental value. According to Benjamin Graham, the father of value investing and Warren Buffett's
teacher at Columbia, market prices are set each day by investors who cast their votes by offering to buy or
sell. Some investors think a company has a solid product line and competent management, and others
consider it stodgy and outmoded. Some investors find another company sexy and right for the future, and
others think it's a risky high-flyer. These attitudes are converted into asset prices.

This is where the tug-of-war comes in. As I see it, every day with regard to every asset, the optimists do
battle with the pessimists. The market throws out, "GM at $52." The optimists think it's worth $58, so
they're happy to buy at $52. Since the pessimists think it's only worth $46, they're willing to
accommodate the buyers by selling at $52, and a trade takes place. But sometimes, one side or the other
predominates. If the people who think it's worth $58 outnumber the ones who think it's worth $46, more
people will want to buy at $52 than want to sell there, so the price will rise to $53, and maybe $54, and so
forth.

Just as an imbalance of opinion in one direction or the other can move the price of GM, it can also move a
whole market. Sometimes the overall mood of investors in a market is positive, meaning they're
characterized by optimism, credulousness, fear of missing out ("FOMO"), and risk tolerance. And
sometimes the mood is negative and marked by pessimism, skepticism, fear of loss, and excessive risk
aversion. Whereas in real life things fluctuate between pretty good and not so hot, in the minds of
investors things can go from flawless to hopeless and back.

When the majority of investors are optimistic, they cause price to rise and potentially exceed value.
And when the pessimists reign, they cause price to decline and potentially fall short of value. Thus,
a preponderance of investor psychology on one side or the other - in lieu of the rationality and objectivity
on which the Efficient Market Hypothesis is predicated - can create the bargains or over-pricings the
hypothesis says can't exist. Investors should be on the lookout for them.

The price of an asset means nothing in isolation. You can't tell whether a car is good buy at $40,000
unless you know about the things that determine its market value: its make, model, age, mileage and
condition. It's the same in investing; what matters is the relationship between an asset's price and
its value. Investors call that relationship the asset's "valuation."

The Interaction of Price and Value

If an asset is bought for the right price (or less), its current earnings can give the buyer a good return on
his purchase price while he owns it, and increases in earning power can add to the current return it throws
off and increase its value and thus the price at which it can be sold. Thus, an investor's ability to earn
an attractive return on an investment will largely depend on whether he accurately appraised the
investment's fundamentals and paid an appropriate price for those fundamentals.

In the long term, the success of an investment will hinge primarily on whether the buyer was right
about the asset's earning power. However, an asset's current earning power and opinions regarding its
future earning power usually don't change much from month to month or even year to year. Thus, short-
term investment performance is likely to stem mostly from changes in the price investors are willing
to pay for the asset. That makes price the dominant consideration for anyone whose principal
concern is the short run.

Value should be thought of as exerting a "magnetic" influence on price. If price is above value,
future price movements are more likely to be downward than upward. And if price is below value, future
price movements are more likely to be upward than downward. However, in the short run, price can
move in just about any direction relative to value. This is so because an asset's price at any given
point in time is mostly determined by investor psychology, which can be irrational and unpredictable.
Thus, while the current relationship of price to underlying value should move in the expected
direction, it can only be counted on to do so in the long run at best.

"More likely to be" is the key phrase in the above paragraph. An undervalued asset can remain cheap
- or even get cheaper - for a long time, just as an overvalued asset can become more overvalued, and then
extremely overvalued, and then crazily overvalued. It's the ability of price to go to crazy extremes that
causes bubbles and crashes. If price always stopped going up when it began to exceed value, we wouldn't
have extended bull markets and bubbles (and the ensuing crashes), and vice versa.

People who bet heavily that price will move in the direction of value - which we call "converging" - can
be carried out if they don't have sufficient staying power. That's why John Maynard Keynes said, "The
market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent." It's intellectually sound to expect
price to move toward value rather than diverge further from it, and even to bet that it will happen,
but it's unwise and potentially dangerous to bet heavily that it'll happen soon.

As Benjamin Graham said, in the short run the market functions like a voting machine, reflecting assets'
popularity. But in the long run, it's a weighing machine, assessing assets' value. Thus, we can think in
terms of a "calculus of value" that I find entirely logical and almost mathematical . . . except for the
fact that it's applied by people who aren't:

 • Value is what you get when you make an investment, and price is what you pay for it.
 • A good investment is one in which the price is right for what the value turns out to be.
 • Due to the volatile nature of investor psychology, asset prices fluctuate much more than
 fundamental value.
 • Thus, most price changes reflect changes in investor psychology rather than changes in
 fundamental value.
 • Because of the key role psychology plays in setting asset prices, in order to have a sense for
 where price stands relative to value, investors should try to gauge prevailing psychology, not just
 quantitative valuation parameters.

 • The relationship of price to value should be expected to strongly influence investment
 performance, with high valuations presaging low subsequent returns, and vice versa.
 • But that relationship must not be counted on to have the expected impact in anything but a
 long-term sense.

When the price of an asset is "fair" (however that's assessed), it's reasonable for an investor to expect to
earn a return that is likewise fair for the risk borne, relative to the risk-adjusted returns on other assets.
But so-called "active investors" go to the trouble of studying companies and markets, buying some assets
but not others, and overweighting some and underweighting others - and clients employ active
investment managers and pay them fees - in the hope of earning returns that are more than fair for the risk
borne and thus better than the risk-adjusted returns enjoyed by other investors. (According to investment
theory, investors can dependably earn a fair or average return by investing passively and thereby avoid
paying active management fees. But active investors want more.) What conditions might give rise to
the superior risk-adjusted returns active investors crave?

 • The consensus of investors doesn't fully comprehend the asset's current value.
 • The market price is too low for the current value of the asset.
 • The asset's value increases more than investors anticipated, usually because of an unforeseen
 increase in its earning power.
 • The asset becomes more popular with investors, resulting in an increase in its price that is
 unrelated to changes in value.

There may be additional possibilities, but I think the above list is pretty exhaustive. And, of course,
developments in the opposite direction from those described above can result in risk-adjusted returns that
are inferior, including returns that are negative.

In the absence of one or more of the conditions listed immediately above, there's no reason to expect
an investment to provide superior returns. And even if these things are present, investors shouldn't
expect to achieve superior results unless they possess the superior insight needed to detect them. In
a nutshell, it's helpful to think of returns as stemming from (a) changes in value and (b) changes in
the relationship between price and value, and the people who earn superior returns are the ones
who anticipate those changes better than others.

How Do Investors Think About Price and Value?

When you watch financial TV shows or read about the market in newspapers or investment publications,
most of what you come across relates to price, or to the relationship between price and value. The
audience doesn't go there to find out how good the company is or what its earning power will be in 2045.
They go there to be told whether stock prices will go up or down in the short run (that is, if they know to
ask, whether the short-term return will be more or less than fair for the risk, and superior or inferior to the
risk-adjusted returns on other assets). And, of course, that's mostly about price/value. So where does that
relationship stand today?

Like many things that are made up of a large number of ingredients both qualitative and
quantitative, a company's attributes can't be summed up through an algorithm or reduced to a
single number. Evaluating them requires judgment. And if the value of a company, for example, is
multivariate and confusingly unquantifiable, it obviously can be very hard to assess the fairness of
its price at a point in time.

Equity investors deal with this challenge by looking primarily - often almost exclusively - at a stock's p/e
ratio, or the ratio of a company's share price to the amount of earnings attributable to each share of its
common stock. It's easy to calculate the p/e ratio for one stock or the average for a stock market or index,
and thus to know how the current p/e ratio compares to p/e ratios on other stocks or at other points in
time. Deviations from those p/e norms are examined in light of the factors that distinguish the company
from other companies (based on aspects of fundamentals beyond the current earnings) or that distinguish
today from past times, and investors reach conclusions as to whether the asset is overpriced, fairly priced,
or underpriced given those considerations. Of course, basing an investment decision on a single metric,
such as a stock's p/e ratio, represents a vast oversimplification of the decision, and thus introduces the
possibility of error.

Getting Up to Date

Now we can start getting current and concrete. Where were we when 2025 began?

 • The S&P 500 stock index is the most watched barometer of the U.S. stock market. Toward the
 end of last year, its forward-looking p/e ratio (the ratio of its price to its estimated earnings over
 the coming year) was around 23, significantly above its historical average.
 • At the time, J.P. Morgan published a graph showing that if you bought the S&P 500 index at 23
 times the coming year's earnings per share in the period 1987-2014 (the only period for which
 there's data on forward-looking p/e ratios and resulting ten-year returns), your average annual
 return over the subsequent ten years was between plus 2% and minus 2% every time. To the
 extent this p/e ratio history is relevant, it bodes pretty poorly for the S&P 500.
 • I concluded in my January memo that this was troublesome but not threatening, again mostly
 because the temporary mania or "irrational exuberance" that I believe accompanies - or gives rise
 to - most bubbles wasn't present.

That was then. What has happened since?

The U.S. stock markets saw declines of up to 10% in the first quarter of this year, with the tech-heavy
Nasdaq Composite falling the most. This was primarily the result of unspectacular economic and
corporate performance, moderate but still higher-than-desired inflation, and possibly worries about
valuation levels and whether the U.S. would retain its position as the world's investment destination of
choice.

Then, on April 2, President Trump announced tariffs on imported goods that were much higher and much
more sweeping than had been anticipated. Investors promptly concluded the tariffs were likely to cause
inflation to accelerate, economic growth to slow, and the U.S. to be viewed less favorably by nations and
investors around the world. The result was a sharp drop in the S&P 500, taking it to a level 15% lower
than where it was at the end of 2024. In short, investors determined the fundamental outlook had been
impaired, and they took down stock prices in line with those poorer fundamentals. Bond investors reacted
as well, demanding a yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note that got as high as 41⁄2%, up from just
over 4% immediately before the tariff announcement. Higher bond yields mean lower bond prices, and
bond investors made clear that they thought the risks were higher and thus increased risk compensation
was in order.

But from the S&P 500's low point on April 8, it has risen by 29% through yesterday, putting it up by 9%
for the year to date. Much of this seems to have been a "relief rally," with trade deal deadlines being
extended and/or tariffs being established below April's announced levels, and with inflation from tariffs

not yet having materialized. In short, the tariff picture thus far is less bad than was feared at the time of
the original announcements. It's also possible that investors are encouraged by expectations of rising
earnings; the tax and spending bill that was passed, with its favorable treatment of corporations; the
pledges to invest in the U.S. that a number of foreign countries have made as part of trade deals; and even
the potential of artificial intelligence to add to companies' earning power.

What can we say about the price/value calculus today?

 • The S&P 500 was highly valued at the end of 2024 and also just before the tariff announcement.
 • The economic possibilities - and likely multi-year earning power for companies - are probably
 less positive on balance than they were before the tariff announcement, albeit not as bad as
 initially feared. Rising inflation is still a concern.
 • The threat of higher inflation has reduced the likelihood of the early, stimulative interest rate cuts
 investors had hoped for.
 • The trade and tariff agreements the administration sought are being extracted, but the U.S. seems
 to be viewed around the world as a less-dependable ally and partner, and some investors may
 conclude they should be less heavily weighted toward U.S. assets. Implementation of this view
 could cause net selling and/or reduce the future demand for these assets.
 • The U.S. fiscal deficits and national debt show no sign of improvement, and worldwide concern
 over them seems to be increasing.
 • Nevertheless, with the outlook possibly diminished on balance, U.S. stock prices are up. While
 earnings are expected to rise, stock prices are up more. Thus, regardless of where it stood as this
 year began, the value proposition in U.S. stocks seems to be less appealing today than it was at
 year-end - and even then, it wasn't great.

What are the indicators of investor behavior and the resulting price/value relationship?

 • The elevated p/e ratio on the S&P 500 is the tentpole of the argument that valuations are
 optimistic.
 • According to the Financial Times (July 25), "Stocks in the S&P 500 are now valued at more than
 3.3 times their [companies'] sales, according to Bloomberg, an all-time high."
 • From the same FT article, "A Barclays 'equity-euphoria indicator,' a composite of derivative
 flows, volatility and sentiment, has surged to twice its normal level, into territory associated with
 asset bubbles."
 • Warren Buffett's favorite indicator - the ratio of the aggregate market capitalization of U.S.
 stocks to U.S. GDP - is also at an all-time high. It's especially worth noting that the U.S. market
 cap has been restrained by companies' tendency to wait longer these days before going public and
 by the fact that many companies have been taken private in buyouts. Thus, this elevated indicator
 could be even more troubling than it appears.
 • The current relationship between the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note and dividend yield
 on the S&P 500 shows the latter to be expensive in historical terms.
 • So-called "meme stocks" - stocks favored by online retail investors, who don't necessarily think
 in terms of the value proposition described above - have attracted heightened attention lately.
 Many sport prices that seem low at first glance, but you have to wonder whether their buyers fully
 understand the companies' fundamentals, some of which appear precarious.
 • Yield spreads - the amount of incremental yield investors demand if they're going to give up the
 safety of Treasury securities and buy corporate debt for its higher yields - are approaching all-
 time lows and are less generous than they were when I wrote the memo Gimme Credit in March.
 This, too, implies an elevated level of risk tolerance on the part of investors, and thus is another
 sign of a lofty market.

An aside regarding the valuation of the S&P 500: A bit over half of its jaw-dropping 58% two-year total
return in 2023-24 was attributable to the spectacular performance of just seven stocks, those of the so-
called "Magnificent Seven" - Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet (parent company of Google), Amazon, Meta
Platforms (parent company of Facebook), Nvidia, and Tesla. These are great companies - some are the
best companies ever - and these seven stocks have grown to represent a startling one-third of the total
market value of the 500-stock index. (Please bear in mind that I don't claim to be an expert on stocks in
general or tech stocks in particular.)

Because of these companies' greatness, their stocks are highly valued, and there's a popular perception
that their elevated valuations are responsible for the S&P 500's unusually high average p/e ratio. The fact
is their p/e ratios average out to roughly 33. This is certainly an above average figure, but I don't find it
unreasonable when viewed against what I believe to be the companies' exceptional products, significant
market shares, high incremental profit margins, and strong competitive moats. (A lot of the Nifty-Fifty
stocks First National City Bank owned when I got there in 1969 were selling at p/e ratios between 60 and
90. Now that's high!) Rather, I think it's the average p/e ratio of 22 on the 493 non-Magnificent
companies in the index - well above the mid-teens average historical p/e for the S&P 500 - that
renders the index's overall valuation so high and possibly worrisome.

Why are asset prices so strong in the face of what I view as net negative developments? How can the
S&P 500 have risen 14% in the four-plus months since April 1, the day before the tariffs were announced,
given that most observers believe the tariffs will add to inflation, weigh on economic growth, and reduce
the perception of the U.S. as the premiere investment destination? Here's my explanation:

 • Investors are by nature optimistic. You must be an optimist to hand over your money to someone
 else in the hope of getting more back later. This is especially true of equity investors, and I think
 their optimism dies hard.
 • When they're in an optimistic mood, investors have the ability to interpret ambiguous
 developments positively and overlook negatives.
 • The last sustained market correction ended in early 2009, meaning it's been over 16 years since
 risk bearing was seriously punished and "buying the dips" wasn't rewarded. That means no one
 under 35 or so - professional and amateur investors alike - has ever experienced a prolonged bear
 market. Older investors have experienced one or more, but, with the passage of such a long time,
 some may have been lulled into a false sense of security.
 • Although the U.S. probably continues to offer the best investment fundamentals in the world,
 some investors may not appreciate the possibility that it's a little "less best."
 • Rationalizations often emerge to keep bull markets going. One these days is "TACO," which
 stands for "Trump Always Chickens Out." The suggestion is that his strongest threats - and some
 of investors' worst resulting fears - won't be realized.
 • Given the long skein of good years in the markets, it seems today's investors are motivated more
 by FOMO than by concern about the chance the market is high and likely to produce poor returns
 or even losses.
 • Finally, of course, the consensus of investors responsible for today's asset prices probably view
 the fundamental outlook as more positive than I do.

What's the bottom line of the calculus? Fundamentals appear to me to be less good overall than
they were seven months ago, but at the same time, asset prices are high relative to earnings, higher
than they were at the end of 2024, and at high valuations relative to history. Most bull markets are
built through the addition of a "constellation of positives" on top of a well-functioning economy. Today I
see elements that include the following:

 • the positive psychology and "wealth effect" resulting from recent gains in markets, high-end real
 estate, and crypto,
 • the belief that, for most investors, there really is no alternative to the U.S. markets, and
 • the excitement surrounding today's new, new thing: AI.

These are the kinds of things that have the ability to fire investor imaginations and contribute to bull
markets, and they certainly seem to be doing so now.

 * * *

I came across a great quote last year from John Stuart Mill (1859): "He who knows only his own side of
the case knows little of that." In other words, if you're not conversant with the arguments of those who
oppose your position, you really can't assess its validity. Thus, I can't responsibly advance my view
without giving the other side of the issue.

In every strongly rising market, there has to be a justification for the extended valuations: the "bull
case." If it didn't exist, asset prices couldn't be where they are. It's usually some variation on "it's
different this time." Here's how it goes today:

A p/e ratio is basically the result of applying a discounted cash flow calculation to a stream of earnings, as
described above. The main inputs for performing such a calculation and assigning a valuation are
assumptions regarding the earnings' growth rate, durability, and return on invested capital. Compared to
the past, today's S&P 500 is increasingly made up of companies that (a) grow faster, (b) are less cyclical,
(c) require less incremental capital to grow, enabling them to generate more free cash flow, and (d) have
much stronger competitive positions or "moats." Thus, they deserve above average p/e ratios.

This explanation makes complete sense. It cites factors that really might be different. And per Sir John
Templeton, the first person that I know talked about the trap of "it's different this time," 20 percent of the
time things really are; today I'd bet it's more than 20 percent.

So, on one hand, "it's different this time" is a recurring bull-market cliche that always bears
scrutiny, and on the other hand, failing to recognize when things actually are different is something
that stands between the average investor and superiority. I just have no idea which of those two
concerns is more valid today. But investors should bear three things in mind:

 • the enormous likelihood that AI and related developments will change the world,
 • the possibility that it is "different" for some companies - those that truly embody the factors
 listed above and will demonstrate the "persistence" I described in On Bubble Watch, but also
 • the fact that in most "new, new things," investors tend to treat far too many companies - and
 often the wrong ones - as likely to succeed.

 * * *

The existence of overvaluation can never be proved, and there's no reason to think the conditions
discussed above imply there'll be a correction anytime soon. But, taken together, they tell me the stock
market has moved from "elevated" to "worrisome."

What should you do about it? I consider tactical actions in terms of the spectrum that runs from
aggressiveness to defensiveness, and when valuations are high, I consider becoming more defensive. In
the "action shows" my wife, Nancy, and I like to watch, the Pentagon sometimes announces a Defense
Readiness Condition, starting at DEFCON 5 and escalating as the danger grows to DEFCON 1, which
indicates a nuclear attack is underway or imminent. In a similar vein, I think of progressively applying
the following Investment Readiness Conditions, or INVESTCONs, in the face of above average market
valuations and optimistic investor behavior:

 6. Stop buying
 5. Reduce aggressive holdings and increase defensive holdings
 4. Sell off the remaining aggressive holdings
 3. Trim defensive holdings as well
 2. Eliminate all holdings
 1. Go short

In my view, it's essentially impossible to reasonably reach the degree of certainty needed to implement
INVESTCON 3, 2, or 1. Because "overvaluation" is never synonymous with "sure to go down soon," it's
rarely wise to go to those extremes. I know I never have. But I have no problem thinking it's time for
INVESTCON 5. And if you lighten up on things that appear historically expensive and switch into
things that appear safer, there may be relatively little to lose from the market continuing to grind higher
for a while . . . or anyway not enough to lose sleep over.

I hasten to note, of course, that credit investments are generally more secure than stocks, and thus well
suited to serve as defensive holdings in the climate I describe. The narrow yield spreads mean today's
prospective returns on credit aren't generous relative to those on "risk-free" assets in the context
of history (see Gimme Credit for the details). But the returns are significant in absolute terms,
competitive with the historical returns on equities, and supported by the issuers' contractual
promise to pay interest and return principal, something that can't be said for stocks.


Memo: A Look Under the Hood.

Over the last 56 years, I've spent a lot of time making suggestions to clients regarding their investment
processes and portfolios, and I've been on the client side as a member of various investment committees.
But seldom have I been able to bridge the two, serving as an active participant in clients' investment
processes. I had an opportunity to do just that the other day, when I met with the board and senior staff of
a U.S. state pension fund. I was asked to listen in and provide feedback on the results of a board-member
survey their consultant had recently conducted and would be reporting on during the meeting.

The content of the consultant's session impressed me so much that I decided to write a memo about it.
I'm not disclosing the names of the state and its consultant, for obvious reasons, but I'm very pleased that
they agreed to let me use the content of the meeting as raw material for this memo.

In the meeting, the consultant covered many of the things I consider "the most important thing" and often
came down on the same side I would (admittedly, that might've contributed to why I was so impressed!).
I'm going to sum up below the consultant's assessment of the board survey and my reaction. My hope is
that this is as informative for you as it was for me.

Attitudes Toward Risk

As you can imagine, I was very glad to see the consultant start with a discussion of how the board
members think about risk, and especially do it in a way that was new to me. They led off with a simple
two-by-two matrix that I found thought-provoking and useful, as it put one of the most important
decisions into perspective.

On the horizontal axis is the plan's ability to bear risk. When I first read that, I thought it referred to the
skillfulness of its board and staff in managing risk. But then it became clear that the reference was to the
plan's financial capacity to accept risk, defined by its financial health and that of its sponsor, the state.

On the vertical axis is the plan's willingness to bear risk - its attitude toward taking on risk and readiness
to withstand the losses that might result. In other words, is the board relatively risk-tolerant or risk-
averse? Will it assume more risk in pursuit of above average returns, or will it shun risk, knowing that
doing so is likely to limit the returns it enjoys? Importantly, "more risk" and "less risk" are considered
relative to the maximum amount of risk that the plan's "ability" might allow it to bear.

The labeling of the matrix's four cells is very informative:

 • If an investor has a high financial ability to bear risk and a high willingness, it is described as
 "capitalizing" on, or taking advantage of, its financial strength and risk-tolerance.
 • If it has a high ability to bear risk but a low willingness, it is said to be "defensive." It could take
 on more risk than it does, but it has chosen to operate at a lower risk level.
 • If it has a low ability to bear risk and a low willingness, it is described as being "protective,"
 which seems appropriate given its circumstances. However, it should be recognized that this is
 likely to limit returns in the short run, and thus to create a need to shoulder more risk and/or
 increase contributions in the out years.
 • Finally, if it has a low ability to bear risk but a high willingness, it is described as "naive." I think
 that might be a generous description. What could be more foolish than taking risk that entails
 potential consequences you might not be able to survive?

The consultant's survey described the board as having a moderate willingness to accept risk despite the
plan's above average ability to bear it (stemming from the plan's solid funding status and the state's
strong economic performance). This suggests returns will be constrained, but also that the plan and its
constituencies won't be exposed to the greater range of outcomes that increased willingness would bring.

I found this an organized way to approach risk bearing, in which the most important thing is that it's done
explicitly and intelligently. It reminded me of the conditions that existed when I was asked to chair the
University of Pennsylvania's investment committee in mid-2000. Penn's endowment performance had
lagged that of its peers because of its having been severely underweighted in growth, tech, venture
capital, and private equity investments in the roaring 1990s, and people were asking whether it should
take on increased risk in an effort to narrow the gap. Penn ranked very low at the time in endowment per
student, a crucial metric.

Should Penn turn aggressive to make up the shortfall, or should it remain conservative to safeguard the
limited resources it had? In the spirit of the consultant's matrix, should it increase its "willingness"
despite the limits on its "ability"? I convinced the people who mattered that (a) it was too late to start
chasing a horse so long after it had left the barn and (b) the risk of continuing to underperform from such
an elevated market level paled relative to the risk of participating in a bust after having missed the boom.
The consultant's matrix might have been of help in that effort.

Moving on from the matrix, the consultant described some other interesting facets of the board's attitude
toward risk:

 • 100% of the board members agreed - half "strongly agreed" - that exposure to risk is necessary if
 the plan wants to meet its objectives.
 • The consensus among board members was that they would feel worse about adopting an
 aggressive strategy and experiencing a market collapse than they would about being conservative
 and missing out on strong gains.

 • The board expressed a strong preference for bearing the "normal" risks stemming from market
 participation as opposed to the risks associated with an innovative but opaque approach that is
 projected to deliver returns accompanied by risk below the normal level.
 • All board members recognized that having true diversification means there may well be some
 laggards within the portfolio at all times.

In my opinion, the consultant covered the most important aspects of risk bearing, and the board members'
views were reasonable. Importantly, they recognize that their conservative bent may lead to under-
performance in strong markets, but they explicitly prefer that to a more aggressive posture with its
attendant risks. This is probably the most important real-world consideration under the heading of risk
attitudes. Not everyone can live happily with the performance lags that conservatism can bring, but this
board has had the opportunity to see that in action during the last two bullish years, and it seems to be
sticking to the plot.

The board members accept that risk isn't something to be avoided. They're not looking for the illusive
black box that others say will give them return without risk. And they understand that caution limits
return potential - and that the staff shouldn't be criticized for the presence of underperformers when the
board says it wants diversification. I found this discussion realistic and constructive.

Setting Objectives

The starting point for the consultant's discussion of objectives was the ranking provided by the board
members:

I was very impressed to see that the members ranked beating peers last among the plan's possible
objectives. And they strongly disagreed with the idea that it's okay to lose money when others do as long
as you do well when others do. When I heard this, I wrote down that we have to be careful when we
think of investing as being like golf, in which it matters little what your score is - just whether it's better
than your opponent's.

Although it's common practice in the investment world to assess short-term investment performance in
terms of how you've done relative to your peers and your benchmarks, in the long run (more on this
later), the success of an entity like a pension plan isn't reckoned in terms of whether it did better than
others. Success for a defined benefit pension plan means being able to pay benefits and minimize
the cost to the plan sponsor. Period. If a plan is unable to pay promised benefits, it's scant comfort that
peer plans can't either.

It's the job of the board and staff to consider likely macro environments, establish an investment approach
and strategy, and choose tactics and managers to create a portfolio that maximizes the probability of
success over a reasonable range of possible scenarios. There's not a word there about doing it better
than others. If an unforeseeable macro environment unfolds in a way that renders the plan unable to pay
benefits, that failure, even if an understandable one and shared by others, is still a failure.

Finally, I think it's important to note that if, on the other hand, the plan does end up with enough money to
pay benefits, that doesn't necessarily mean its board and staff did a good job. Before coming to that
conclusion, one would need to gauge how the portfolio would have done if a different environment had
unfolded - that is, to consider "alternative histories" in the way proposed by Nassim Nicholas Taleb in
Fooled by Randomness. If the portfolio wouldn't have done well under other scenarios, the plan's ability
to pay benefits might be attributed solely to the fact that the one that unfolded did so. In that case, the
plan's success might be more a matter of luck than skill. But this isn't an easy analysis to perform.

On the Subject of Volatility

I was very glad to hear that the board members ranked the Sharpe ratio last among six possible
performance metrics and on average considered avoiding volatility in the sponsor's contributions less of a
priority than the ability to pay benefits or attain fully funded status. Most of the members thought it was
important to balance stable contributions and the pursuit of high returns, although some did rank
contribution stability higher than the level of return. Obviously, this is a challenging question for a board
concerned with both the need to pay benefits and the desire to limit the cost to the sponsor.

In future memos, I'm likely to harp on my view that investors pay too much attention to volatility.
It's absolutely essential for investors to think about limiting their risk, but I don't think volatility is
the risk they should be most concerned with. Regardless, much of the investing community has
accepted volatility as the best indicator of risk - primarily, I think, because it's the only way to come up
with a number for risk - and that has led to excessive attention being paid to it.

I'll make a controversial statement here: in pure investment terms, there's no intrinsic reason for
long-term investors to be concerned with volatility (as distinguished from the risk of permanent
loss). Warren Buffett famously says he'd "rather earn a lumpy 15% return than a smooth 12%." Why
wouldn't everyone?

In my opinion, the main reasons for concern over fluctuating market prices are situational, institutional,
political, career-related, psychological, and emotional. I call these things "externalities," and because
they're external to the investment process, a potentially volatile investment can be risky for some
investors and not for others. For example:

 • An AI stock can be a risky holding for the manager of a mutual fund that's priced daily and
 subject to daily withdrawals - or for an investor who's likely to panic during a market crash and
 sell at the bottom - but much less so for a sovereign wealth fund where the money is unlikely to
 be withdrawn and there's no requirement to publish financials and satisfy public opinion.
 • An investor whose compensation is based on metrics that penalize volatility may consider a
 publicly traded bond riskier than a private loan from the same issuer that doesn't mark to market,
 even though the risk of default is the same for both.

If it's true that an asset's volatility can bring risk for some investors but not others, then clearly the
risk doesn't lie in the investment, but in something in the investor's environment.

While I think the risk of permanent loss is the most important investment risk, I recognize that volatility
can be a material real-world risk for some investors. My experience with the pension fund session
reminded me that rapidly fluctuating portfolio values can require fluctuating contributions from pension
plan sponsors. This may be an externality relative to the process of estimating the intrinsic value of
potential investments and assessing their potential returns and risks, but it's a completely legitimate

consideration for people with responsibility for pension plans. It's absolutely internal to them and their
process.

And, of course, pension funds are but one example of the type of investor who may consider volatility a
risk. University endowments are another example. Typically, universities rely upon an annual "draw"
from the endowment to fund a material portion of their operating expenses. Volatility in the value of the
endowment can affect the amount of that draw and require unplanned changes to a university's
operations. We saw this very clearly when the Global Financial Crisis hit in 2008.

Choice of Investment Approach

The consultant did a good job of covering questions regarding strategies and tactics, and the board gave
good answers. Here are a few of the areas they touched on:

 • All board members agreed that it's impossible to foresee the future, and thus that the portfolio
 should be built to prepare for "all environments" rather than base performance expectations on
 the ability to time markets. Of course this is the right attitude, even though it's impossible to (a)
 specify "all environments" or (b) build a portfolio that entails the risk inherent in investing but is
 capable of performing well in all environments.
 • A substantial majority of the members said they're comfortable with using leverage at 15-20% of
 the plan's assets. I think this is reasonable. A well-funded plan that's sponsored by a financially
 strong employer and invested conservatively should be able to withstand the uncertainties
 associated with this level of leverage. While most public plans may not use leverage, I think it
 makes sense for this one. However, (a) it's still essential to deal with the risk of the lender pulling
 the leverage at a bad time in the investment and capital markets and (b) paying interest to borrow
 makes it even more important that the plan not hold a lot of assets whose only merit is a highly
 dependable low return (or, in this case, a return below its borrowing cost).
 • A slimmer majority backed putting 25% of the portfolio into illiquid assets "assuming all benefit
 payments and foreseen funding requirements can be met." However, a few thought a higher
 promised return isn't a good reason for surrendering flexibility. Clearly, some part of a well-
 funded plan's assets can reasonably be illiquid, but getting that percentage right is no simple
 matter.
 • Slightly more members were in favor of focusing exclusively on expected returns net of fees,
 while a few thought minimization of fees should be a goal in itself. This is a tough area. No one
 wants to pay high fees and not get above average performance. But when you sign up for a fund
 with stiff fees, the performance is hoped for while the fees are a sure thing. All you have to do is
 figure out which high-fee funds are likely to deliver and which aren't. Not an easy task. It would
 be interesting to see a study of the correlation between plan portfolios' average fees paid and their
 performance, but I never have.

Overall, I think these positions make sense for this plan.

Assessing Performance

The consultant asked the board members which performance standards they think are most important and
reported that the board members considered achieving the actuarial assumption the most important thing;
beating the policy benchmark and having managers beat their respective benchmarks were secondary; and

beating peers and popular indices like the S&P 500 were deemed relatively unimportant. I think they
have their priorities right.

When it was my turn to speak, I got more questions on how to assess the performance of the investment
operation than anything else. This is one of the toughest questions in our business. I'll summarize below
what I said and add a lot that I should have said.

It's absolutely true that the thing that matters most is whether the plan achieves the rate of return the
actuaries accurately project is necessary: that is, for today's capital and the expected capital contributions
to reach the sum needed to pay future benefits. So, if the plan's actuarial assumption is 61⁄4%, what
matters most is whether the board and staff can achieve that over the long term. But the board and staff
have to assess whether the investment approach is working over much shorter periods and, in
particular, they have to decide on raises, promotions, and personnel retention every year.

The challenge in assessing performance in this regard stems from the fact that making 61⁄4% may be
the only thing that matters in the long run but absolutely irrelevant in the short run. If the 60/40
balanced portfolio, the policy portfolio, or the peer average is up 20% next year, achieving 61⁄4% can't be
described as success. And if those relative benchmarks are down 20% next year, making 61⁄4% is
probably an unreasonable criterion. In other words, achieving the actuarial assumption in any given
year or even over a few years isn't a useful standard for performance assessment over those
periods.

Ironically, the appropriate standard for performance measurement in the short or perhaps the
intermediate term has to be a relative one, not absolute. In the short term, we have no choice other
than to assess performance in light of what reasonably could have been accomplished in the
environment that unfolded. The key question is "should we have done better?" and the best way to
answer it is probably by looking at how others did who were similarly situated. So, again ironically,
the right standard is likely, "how did our peers do?" After all, if they're really our peers, they probably
have similar goals, are subject to similar constraints, and were presented with a similar menu of potential
investments as we were. For this reason, their performance may be the best short-term benchmark against
which to measure ours.

But this isn't a perfect standard either. For example, if our portfolio goes up as much as our peers'
portfolios in a bubblish market, that may merely mean our portfolio was as imprudent as theirs. Similarly,
if everyone else loses a lot in bad times, going down almost as much probably means we screwed up also,
and that's no reason for congratulations and raises. But if we can beat our peers in bad times and do
almost as well or better in good times, that may be the most solid reason for awarding high marks.

Of course, we can use the policy portfolio for these assessments instead of peer performance, but then the
people who set the policy portfolio are let off the hook. The policy portfolio is a possible standard for
assessment, but what's to say it's a good one? If the policy portfolio excludes alternatives when they
should have been considered for inclusion, as in the Penn endowment example above, you might beat the
policy benchmark but fail to keep up with what the environment afforded. In the end, I think what this
discussion proves isn't that one standard for assessment is better than the others, but that there is
no standard that's free of deficiencies.

And that leads to the question of the proper period for assessing performance. The trouble with using the
actuarial assumption as the criterion is that, in the short run, too many factors are in play for performance
versus the assumption to be a clear indicator of whether a portfolio was managed skillfully. As suggested
above, performance in an individual year will be heavily influenced by whether the market was strong or

weak, and especially by whether the investors driving it were mindlessly optimistic or panicked. Further,
the market's performance might have been dictated by a single unforeseeable event. Is it reasonable to
hold staff responsible for not having foreseen it? We all know a single year isn't a reasonable basis for
determining investment skill. But what should the period be?

In asking this question, most people want to be given a number of years: perhaps three, five, eight, or ten.
But the correct answer can't be a fixed number. Given the large number of factors that influence
performance, the assessment period has to be long enough for these things to even out, long enough for
that one freak occurrence to dissipate, and long enough so that the performance of the portfolio in
both bullish and bearish environments can be assessed.

If performance is assessed over a period that includes only good times - like the last 16 years (save for a
few relatively short dips) - the prize for performance is likely to go to those investors with the most risk-
prone portfolios. In such an environment, keeping up with or surpassing the benchmarks may not be a
sign of investment skill, but rather extreme risk tolerance. Likewise, beating the benchmarks or the peers
in a declining market may only be a sign of above average risk aversion, not the ability of a portfolio to
achieve a superior risk-adjusted return over the long run.

So, the answer is that an appropriate performance assessment period has to include both good
times and bad. In other words, it should cover a full market cycle. That's the only way to distinguish
investment skill (including the ability to tilt conservative or aggressive at the right times) from a mere
bias toward aggressiveness or defensiveness. On this subject, this is by far the most important thing.
Defining a full cycle can be problematic, particularly as economic cycles seem to have lengthened
recently, but it should be possible to have a sense for whether a given period includes both good times and
bad.

Finally on the subject of performance assessment, I suggested that the board consider the level of
personnel turnover. It's not that personnel turnover is always a black mark; some is completely
understandable. For example, no hiring process can be expected to work perfectly, meaning every
organization will have to weed out subpar performers. Further, we know compensation is limited in the
public plan arena, so good performers are likely to be given opportunities to move to the private sector; in
this way, losing employees can be a sign that the hiring process identified good performers. But above
average personnel turnover may be indicative of a poor hiring process, an unreasonable performance
assessment process, or poor management practices. At minimum, these possibilities must be considered.

The Bottom Line

In general, I very much liked what I heard in the session, and I think these are the most important
observations:

• The board members are happy to take less than 100% of the risk the plan's finances might permit.
• They prefer to forego some return potential in order to avoid the full force of market declines.
• They have little concern for their ranking within their peer group.
• They have relatively little interest in volatility-adjusted performance metrics.
• They're rightly concerned about how to assess the performance of the investment team and the
 portfolio they produce.

What these observations tell me is that the board and its consultant are considering the right questions and
reaching reasonable conclusions. The session was very informative for me, and I'm glad I had the
opportunity to participate. I hope this recap was helpful for you, too.


Memo: Cockroaches in the Coal Mine.

Pardon the mixed metaphor, but I couldn't resist.

Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JP Morgan Chase, whose comments are always
insightful and direct, said the following last month with regard to the bankruptcy filings from First
Brands, an auto parts supplier, and Tricolor, a seller of and subprime lender against used cars: "My
antenna goes up when things like that happen. And I probably shouldn't say this, but when you see one
cockroach, there are probably more . . . everyone should be forewarned on this one."

And we all know that coal miners used to bring along a canary when they entered a mine, since its tiny
body would succumb to any gas that was present before the gas could pose a threat to the miners. Both
the cockroach and the canary can be precursors of problems ahead. We've heard both sayings in use in
the last month, and we're likely to hear them more.

One of the most prominent characteristics of the financial markets that I've detected over the years is their
tendency to obsess over a single topic at a given point in time. The topic eventually changes to another,
but before it does, it's often the thing people want to discuss to the near exclusion of everything else.
Today it's the recent string of episodes in sub-investment grade credit.

Current Events

Given the suggestion that fraud may have played a role in both the First Brands and Tricolor
bankruptcies, and given that both companies had borrowed in the private credit market, people saw a
connection. Is this the beginning of a problem?

As I mentioned in my memo Gimme Credit in March, the thing people have asked me about most often
over the last few years is private credit. The sector took root around 2011, when banks were limited in
making loans following the Global Financial Crisis and money managers stepped in to fill the void,
primarily lending to leverage-hungry private equity sponsors. Because lenders were few, those who
would put out money were able to demand high interest rates and a high level of safety. These loans
looked good to investors in the low-rate environment that prevailed. Thus, private credit was anointed as
a magic investment solution, with perhaps $2 trillion flowing into the sector in the subsequent years. The
arrival of new entrants and a great deal of incremental capital created more competition to lend and
inevitably reduced some of the lenders' advantages.

When asked about private credit, I answered that the investment environment had been mostly benign
over the years since 2011, meaning - to echo Warren Buffett - the tide had never gone out on private
credit (i.e., it hadn't been tested). Now, with two high-profile bankruptcies in short order, people thought
they might be starting to see cracks.

The tone turned more serious when it became clear that not only were there failures, but also there might
be something sinister behind them. There are allegations that First Brands - which had both public and

private debt outstanding - used the same receivables as collateral for multiple loans. Tricolor turns out to
have made loans to buyers lacking credit scores or driver's licenses and had been previously cited by
regulators for practices such as selling cars for which it lacked titles.

And then, last month, as Robert Armstrong of the Financial Times noted in his daily online column,
"Unhedged" (which is one of my favorites):

 On [October 15], Zions Bancorp disclosed in a regulatory filing that it "recently became
 aware of . . . apparent misrepresentations and contractual defaults" by two corporate
 borrowers that did not respond to the bank's subsequent inquiries, and would take a
 $50mn writedown on the loans.

 And on [October 16] another mid-sized bank, Western Alliance, disclosed that back in
 August it had initiated a fraud lawsuit against one of its commercial real estate borrowers.

Most recently, it's been revealed that two small telecom firms under common control, Broadband
Telecom and Bridgevoice, borrowed extensively on the basis of fabricated receivables and have filed for
bankruptcy. If one is an isolated instance and two hint at a pattern, are six an ominous trend?

As I pointed out in my memo What Does the Market Know? in 2016, in real life things fluctuate between
pretty good and not so hot, but in investors' minds they go from flawless to hopeless. We saw a very
strong reaction in this case: notably, the stock prices of some prominent alternative asset managers were
down 5-7% on October 16, close on the heels of the regional banks' disclosures.

The truth is that there are always defaults and not infrequently defalcations (how's that for a good old-
fashioned word?). Over my 47 years in the high yield bond market, more than 2% of all bonds by value
have defaulted in a typical year, and many more during crises. If you apply that percentage to the number
of sub-investment grade issuers, which runs in the thousands, it shouldn't come as a surprise if there are a
few dozen defaults in a normal year.

So no, I don't think this is necessarily the beginning of a trend. It's not an indictment of the whole sub-
investment grade debt market, or the whole private credit market. Rather, it's just a reminder that the
yield spreads people care about so much are there for a reason: because sub-investment grade debt
entails credit risk. And thus a reminder that credit skills are always a necessity for debt investors . . .
even if the need for those skills isn't apparent in good times.

The Cycle in Attitudes Toward Risk

In 2016, when I first sat down to write my book Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your
Side, I had an idea what topics I would cover - the economic cycle, the profit cycle, the cycle in investor
psychology, the credit cycle, the distressed debt cycle, and the real estate cycle. The chapter I didn't plan
to write - and the one that became the most important chapter in the book and one of the longest - was
the one titled "The Cycle in Attitudes Toward Risk." Security prices fluctuate much more than do the
intrinsic value and prospects of the underlying companies, and the main reason for this is the
extreme volatility in the way people feel about risk.

When the economy is humming, companies are reporting growing earnings, security prices are rising, and
profits are piling up, people say things like: "Risk is my friend. The more risk I take, the more money I
make. And anyway, I don't see anything to worry about." In good times, ambiguous developments are

interpreted positively, and negative ones are easily brushed aside. And when times have been good for a
while, the possibility of loss recedes from consciousness. Rather, missing out on potential gains and
falling behind one's competitors becomes the dominant concern. Investors' risk tolerance grows, and
they tend to focus less on due diligence and more on bidding aggressively for deals (see my memo The
Race to the Bottom, February 2007). In all these ways, the result is a lowering of standards.

Eventually, the economy turns down, corporate profits decline, the markets slump, and people lose
money. Now, the refrain is, "Bearing risk is just a way to lose money. I'll never do it again. Get me out
at any price." Now it's the negatives that are exaggerated and the positives that are ignored. People
regret the due diligence they didn't perform and the iffy deals they didn't reject, and they're reminded that
there's something worse than missing out on gains. The pendulum has swung in the other direction, and
risk aversion takes over from risk tolerance. As a result, the standard for investing and lending
becomes elevated.

One of the quotations I have the most use for is said to come from Mark Twain: "History does not repeat
itself, but it does rhyme." This is particularly relevant in the world of finance, where certain themes
reappear in cycle after cycle. The recurring roller coaster of psychology and the resulting behavior is the
most important of them.

The key observation is that good times lead to complacency, risk tolerance, and carelessness, as
people bid aggressively for assets and compete to make loans. And then, bad times expose the
results of that carelessness, as investments that were entered into without an adequate investigation
and margin for error fail to hold up in a hostile environment.

This is nothing new. As financial historian Edward Chancellor wrote in his 2022 book The Price of Time:

 The Manchester banker John Mills commented perceptively [in 1865] that "as a rule,
 panics do not destroy capital; they merely revealed the extent to which it has previously
 been destroyed by its betrayal into hopelessly unproductive works."

In other words, many flawed decisions, which the economist Friedrich Hayek aptly described as
"malinvestment," are made in booms and exposed in busts. It will ever be so. This is summed up
most concisely in a great banking adage: "The worst of loans are made in the best of times."

A Good Bezzle

Charlie Munger and I used to enjoy talking about the economist John Kenneth Galbraith. Galbraith was
the source of many of my favorite expressions with regard to the financial markets. One I haven't
mentioned since my memo The Long View in 2009 is the "bezzle," a concept Galbraith introduced in his
book The Great Crash 1929.

What's a bezzle? In short, according to Galbraith, it's the wealth financial fraudsters or embezzlers
appear to have created, which lifts the spirits of the beneficiaries up until the time they're found out.
Charlie used to say the good times described above, in giving rise to a low level of prudence, create the
necessary conditions for "a good bezzle." Here's how economist Michael Pettis described the cyclicality
of this phenomenon in his newsletter:

 Certain periods . . . Galbraith further noted, are conducive to the creation of bezzle, and at
 particular times this inflated sense of value is more likely to be unleashed, giving it a
 systematic quality:

 This inventory [of fraudulently inflated wealth] . . . varies in size with the
 business cycle. In good times, people are relaxed, trusting, and money is
 plentiful. But even though money is plentiful, there are always many people
 who need more. Under these circumstances, the rate of embezzlement grows,
 the rate of discovery falls off, and the bezzle increases rapidly. In depression,
 all this is reversed. Money is watched with a narrow, suspicious eye. The man
 who handles it is assumed to be dishonest until he proves himself otherwise.
 Audits are penetrating and meticulous. Commercial morality is enormously
 improved. The bezzle shrinks.

 (China Financial Markets, August 23, 2021)

The overconfidence, incaution, and inattentiveness that lead to unwise investments in good times also
present the perfect conditions for fraudulent schemes. Risk tolerance, FOMO (fear of missing out),
inadequate due diligence, and fevered buying provide fertile soil for financial scams. In heady times,
rather than say, "That's too good to be true," people are more likely to ask, "How can I get in on
that?"

The markets aren't crooked per se, but they're full of money, and thus they tend to attract crooks. And,
intelligently, the crooks are most active in times when conducting due diligence is in retreat and loose
change becomes more readily accessible. It shouldn't come as a surprise in the years ahead if the last
sixteen years of largely uninterrupted economic growth, rising markets, and profitable risk taking are
shown to have produced a bumper crop of frauds.

Nowadays, I'm often asked whether the issues described above are "systemic." In other words, are
they "pertaining to the system" or "affecting the system," as opposed to idiosyncratic occurrences that
don't say anything about the system. For an example of something systemic, consider the counterparty
risk that arose during the Global Financial Crisis. Because financial institutions had entered into hedging
transactions with each other, one bank's weakness weakened the others, impacting the system overall. I
think "hardwired into the system" is a good way to describe something that's systemic.

I don't think today's issues are systemic in the sense that there's something wrong with the lending
system, or that they will trigger other defaults and lead to a breakdown of the system. In simpler words,
there's nothing wrong with the plumbing. But imprudent loans and business frauds often occur in clusters
for the simple reason that people who make investments and loans are highly prone to error in good times.
Investors and lenders are supposed to be risk-averse and thus exercise discipline and vigilance, but
sometimes they fail in this regard. This isn't part of the plumbing of the financial system but rather a
regularly recurring behavioral phenomenon. So, it isn't ''systemic,'' but it is "systematic."

A Case in Point: First Brands

In September, First Brands, a non-household-name auto parts supplier, rocketed into the news with a
bankruptcy filing. While possibly an isolated instance, this attracted significant attention as the first high-
profile bankruptcy involving a borrower in the adolescent private credit market.

The problem at First Brands appears to stem primarily from its borrowings against receivables. In many
fields, it's normal for manufacturers and wholesalers to ship goods to their retailer customers on credit
and, to make efficient use of their capital, sell the resulting receivables to financial institutions at
discounts that give those institutions their return. This process is called "factoring," and it's been a very
normal practice in various industries for as long as I've been in the business world.

In the case of First Brands, however, one part of the practice was different. Rather than payments being
made by retailers directly to the financial institutions that bought the receivables, some went to First
Brands for forwarding to the institutions. This allegedly permitted First Brands to sell receivables more
than once and, perhaps, to retain some payments rather than forward them to the factoring firms.

In an analysis we conducted last summer, we found that, in addition to these factoring arrangements, the
company made aggressive use of other forms of off-balance-sheet financing. For example, First Brands
sold inventory to related special-purpose vehicles, which then used the purchased inventory as borrowing
base assets to obtain loans. In most cases, the inventory was required to be sold back to First Brands, so
while this served as a source of temporary liquidity, it left First Brands with layered, complex obligations
that ballooned to several billion dollars.

The scale of off-balance-sheet financing was striking; we've learned through bankruptcy filings that First
Brands's total obligations are $11.6 billion (inclusive of $9.3 billion of debt) versus the debt level of $5.9
billion that had been disclosed during a financing process undertaken in July. The complexity and
opaqueness of these factoring and financing arrangements caused a creditor's lawyer to say $2.3 billion
had "simply vanished."

Byzantine corporate structures and extensive off-balance-sheet financing have been present in
many corporate frauds we've witnessed, exemplified by Enron Corporation. But even in advance of
First Brands's bankruptcy filing in late September, Oaktree's research turned up the following red flags:

 • only six years of operating history but already $5 billion of annual sales
 • controlled by an individual with almost no media references or online profile
 • a significant litigation history, including allegations of misconduct
 • reported profit margins above the industry average
 • a large number of M&A transactions creating a web of corporate entities
 • other aspects of weak controls

You might wonder how a company as described above could attract financing. First, private credit
often involves companies that don't file disclosure documents with the SEC. Thus, initial
investment decisions are usually based heavily on information provided by bankers and auditors.
Investors have little choice but to rely on these sources, and usually they can do so safely. Only after
they've made an initial commitment and are considering increasing it do most investors gain access to a
company's "data room" and engage in extensive research.

Second, while the truth is often clear after the fact - and especially after a bankruptcy filing - the
picture can be more nuanced beforehand. After all, these are companies that have passed muster with
underwriters, auditors, and investors. If the negatives surrounding the company were totally evident,
either it wouldn't have been able to obtain financing in the first place, or its debt would be selling at
bankruptcy prices by the time a holder catches on, making it too late to benefit from analysis.

In investment research, conclusions usually aren't compellingly obvious, but instead built up from
inferences and probabilities. It's not a matter of one decisive discovery at an "aha moment" but

rather the assembly of individual snippets of information into a "mosaic" that leans toward a
conclusion based on what in law is called "a preponderance of the evidence."

In the case of First Brands, having taken a small position, we dug deeper early last summer. The red flags
listed above weren't conclusive, especially given that we didn't have the full picture that became clear
through the bankruptcy filing. Rather, these observations hinted at weaknesses and suggested problems.

Importantly, Oaktree's span and scale provided multiple points of contact with First Brands through a
number of our strategies, helping us to assemble the necessary mosaic. Further, a thorough job of credit
research costs the same whether you're considering investing $50 million or $500 million. Greater scale
allows an investor to spread the cost of in-depth research over larger holdings. In investing, size has both
pros and cons, but here we're talking about one of the former.

This is how analysis should be done, and in this case I'm glad to say it was. Of course, I'm writing about
our experience with First Brands because we reached the correct conclusion. We don't always do this as
well as we did in this case, and I want to say right here that over our 47 years of investing in sub-
investment grade debt, we've experienced plenty of defaults and even a few frauds. That's an
inevitable part of life when your business consists of knowingly bearing credit risk for profit. But
these caveats don't keep the First Brands case from proving a valuable opportunity for learning.

What are the key takeaways?

 • Defaults are a normal part of life in sub-investment grade investing.
 • However, bullish conditions in good times usually lead to a lowering of lending standards,
 giving rise to elevated defaults and an occasional fraud.
 • It's absolutely essential to always balance the desire to put money to work with the need for
 prudence.
 • Superior credit analysis is a matter of second-level thinking - thinking that's different from that
 of others and better - based on a mosaic of information and inferences.
 • In detecting credit defects, the big payoff is for being early. If you reach a negative conclusion at
 the same time as everyone else, the price you'll get for your holdings is likely to be marked down
 to fully reflect the negatives - that's market efficiency.
 • It's important to note that whereas private credit has been the rage of late, all else being
 equal, it's great to hold public debt that can be exited more readily if you sour on the credit.

We've lived through generally good times in the last 16 years. The coming period is likely to be more
"interesting," as errors that were made in those good times come to light.

On the other hand, the frauds described above have probably chastened lenders and investors, putting
them on alert. Thus, they're likely to incorporate a re-elevated level of prudence in their decisions in the
coming months and perhaps years. This would be a positive development.


Memo: Is It a Bubble?.

Ours is a remarkable moment in world history. A transformative technology is ascending,
 and its supporters claim it will forever change the world. To build it requires companies
 to invest a sum of money unlike anything in living memory. News reports are filled with
 widespread fears that America's biggest corporations are propping up a bubble that will
 soon pop.

During my visits to clients in Asia and the Middle East last month, I was often asked about the possibility
of a bubble surrounding artificial intelligence, and my discussions gave rise to this memo. I want to start
off with my usual caveats: I'm not active in the stock market; I merely watch it as the best barometer of
investor psychology. I'm also no techie, and I don't know any more about AI than most generalist
investors. But I'll do my best.

One of the most interesting aspects of bubbles is their regularity, not in terms of timing, but rather the
progression they follow. Something new and seemingly revolutionary appears and worms its way into
people's minds. It captures their imagination, and the excitement is overwhelming. The early participants
enjoy huge gains. Those who merely look on feel incredible envy and regret and - motivated by the fear
of continuing to miss out - pile in. They do this without knowledge of what the future will bring or
concern about whether the price they're paying can possibly be expected to produce a reasonable return
with a tolerable amount of risk. The end result for investors is inevitably painful in the short to medium
term, although it's possible to end up ahead after enough years have passed.

I've lived through several bubbles and read about others, and they've all hewed to this description. One
might think the losses experienced when past bubbles popped would discourage the next one from
forming. But that hasn't happened yet, and I'm sure it never will. Memories are short, and prudence
and natural risk aversion are no match for the dream of getting rich on the back of a revolutionary
technology that "everyone knows" will change the world.

I took the quote that opens this memo from Derek Thompson's November 4 newsletter entitled "AI Could
Be the Railroad of the 21st Century. Brace Yourself," about parallels between what's going on today in AI
and the railroad boom of the 1860s. Its word-for-word applicability to both shows clearly what's meant by
the phrase widely attributed to Mark Twain: "history rhymes."

Understanding Bubbles

Before diving into the subject at hand - and having read a great deal about it in preparation - I want to
start with a point of clarification. Everyone asks, "Is there a bubble in AI?" I think there's
ambiguity even in the question. I've concluded there are two different but interrelated bubble
possibilities to think about: one in the behavior of companies within the industry, and the other in
how investors are behaving with regard to the industry. I have absolutely no ability to judge whether
the AI companies' aggressive behavior is justified, so I'll try to stick primarily to the question of whether
there's a bubble around AI in the financial world.

The main job of an investment analyst - especially in the so-called "value" school to which I subscribe -
is to (a) study companies and other assets and assess the level of and outlook for their intrinsic value and
(b) make investment decisions on the basis of that value. Most of the change the analyst encounters in the
short to medium term surrounds the asset's price and its relationship to underlying value. That
relationship, in turn, is essentially the result of investor psychology.

Market bubbles aren't caused directly by technological or financial developments. Rather, they result from
the application of excessive optimism to those developments. As I wrote in my January memo On
Bubble Watch, bubbles are temporary manias in which developments in those areas become the subject
of what former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan called "irrational exuberance.''

Bubbles usually coalesce around new financial developments (e.g., the South Sea Company of the early
1700s or sub-prime residential mortgage-backed securities in 2005-06) or technological progress (optical
fiber in the late 1990s and the internet in 1998-2000). Newness plays a huge part in this. Because
there's no history to restrain the imagination, the future can appear limitless for the new thing. And
futures that are perceived to be limitless can justify valuations that go well beyond past norms -
leading to asset prices that aren't justified on the basis of predictable earning power.

The role of newness is well described in my favorite passage from a book that greatly influenced me, A
Short History of Financial Euphoria by John Kenneth Galbraith. Galbraith wrote about what he called
"the extreme brevity of the financial memory" and pointed out that in the financial markets, "past
experience, to the extent that it is part of memory at all, is dismissed as the primitive refuge of those who
do not have the insight to appreciate the incredible wonders of the present." In other words, history can
impose limits on awe regarding the present and imagination regarding the future. In the absence of
history, on the other hand, all things seem possible.

The key thing to note here is that the new thing understandably inspires great enthusiasm, but
bubbles are what happen when the enthusiasm reaches irrational proportions. Who can identify the
boundary of rationality? Who can say when an optimistic market has become a bubble? It's just a matter
of judgment.

Something that occurred to me this past month is that two of my best "calls" came in 2000, when I
cautioned about what was going on in the market for tech and internet stocks, and in 2005-07, when I cited
the dearth of risk aversion and the resulting ease of doing crazy deals in the pre-Global Financial Crisis
world.

 • First, in neither case did I possess any expertise regarding the things that turned out to be the
 subjects of the bubbles: the internet and sub-prime mortgage-backed securities. All I did was
 render observations regarding the behavior taking place around me.
 • And second, the value in my calls consisted mostly of describing the folly in that behavior, not in
 insisting that it had brought on a bubble.

Struggling with whether to apply the "bubble" label can bog you down and interfere with proper
judgment; we can accomplish a great deal by merely assessing what's going on around us and
drawing inferences with regard to proper behavior.

What's Good About Bubbles?

Before going on to discuss AI and whether it's presently in a bubble, I want to spend a little time on a
subject that may seem somewhat academic from the standpoint of investors: the upside of bubbles. You
may find the attention I devote to this topic excessive, but I do so because I find it fascinating.

The November 5 Stratechery newsletter was entitled "The Benefits of Bubbles." In it, Ben Thompson (no
relation to Derek) cites a book titled Boom: Bubbles and the End of Stagnation. It was written by Byrne
Hobart and Tobias Huber, who propose that there are two kinds of bubbles:

 . . . "Inflection Bubbles" - the good kind of bubbles, as opposed to the much more
 damaging "Mean-reversion Bubbles" like the 2000's subprime mortgage bubble.

I find this a useful dichotomy.

 • The financial fads I've read about or witnessed - the South Sea Company, portfolio insurance, and
 sub-prime mortgage-backed securities - stirred the imagination based on the promise of returns
 without risk, but there was no expectation that they would represent overall progress for mankind.
 There was, for example, no thought that housing would be revolutionized by the sub-prime
 mortgage movement, merely a feeling that there was money to be made from backing new buyers.
 Hobart and Huber call these "mean-reverting bubbles," presumably because there's no expectation
 that the underlying developments would move the world forward. Fads merely rise and fall.
 • On the other hand, Hobart and Huber call bubbles based on technological progress - as in the case
 of the railroads and the internet - "inflection bubbles." After an inflection-driven bubble, the
 world will not revert to its prior state. In such a bubble, "investors decide that the future will be
 meaningfully different from the past and trade accordingly." As Thompson tells us:

 The definitive book on bubbles has long been Carlota Perez's Technological
 Revolutions and Financial Capital. Bubbles were - are - thought to be something
 negative and to be avoided, particularly at the time Perez published her book. The
 year was 2002 and much of the world was in a recession coming off the puncturing
 of the dot-com bubble.

 Perez didn't deny the pain: in fact, she noted that similar crashes marked previous
 revolutions, including the Industrial Revolution, railways, electricity, and the
 automobile. In each case the bubbles were not regrettable, but necessary: the
 speculative mania enabled what Perez called the "Installation Phase," where
 necessary but not necessarily financially wise investments laid the groundwork
 for the "Deployment Period." What marked the shift to the deployment period
 was the popping of the bubble; what enabled the deployment period were the
 money-losing investments. (All emphasis added)

This distinction is very meaningful for Hobart and Huber, and I agree. They say, "not all bubbles destroy
wealth and value. Some can be understood as important catalysts for techno-scientific progress."

But I would restate as follows: "Mean-reversion bubbles" - in which markets soar on the basis of some
new financial miracle and then collapse - destroy wealth. On the other hand, "inflection bubbles" based
on revolutionary developments accelerate technological progress and create the foundation for a more
prosperous future, and they destroy wealth. The key is to not be one of the investors whose wealth is
destroyed in the process of bringing on progress.

Hobart and Huber go on to describe in greater depth the process through which bubbles finance the
building of the infrastructure required by the new technology and thus accelerate its adoption:

 Most novel technology doesn't just appear ex nihilo [i.e., from nothing], entering the
 world fully formed and all at once. Rather, it builds on previous false starts, failures,
 iterations, and historical path dependencies. Bubbles create opportunities to deploy the
 capital necessary to fund and speed up such large-scale experimentation - which includes
 lots of trial and error done in parallel - thereby accelerating the rate of potentially
 disruptive technologies and breakthroughs.

 By generating positive feedback cycles of enthusiasm and investment, bubbles can be net
 beneficial. Optimism can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. Speculation provides the massive
 financing needed to fund highly risky and exploratory projects; what appears in the short
 term to be excessive enthusiasm or just bad investing turns out to be essential for
 bootstrapping social and technological innovations . . . A bubble can be a collective
 delusion, but it can also be an expression of collective vision. That vision becomes a site
 of coordination for people and capital and for the parallelization of innovation. Instead of
 happening over time, bursts of progress happen simultaneously across different domains.
 And with mounting enthusiasm . . . comes increased risk tolerance and strong network
 effects. The fear of missing out, or FOMO, attracts even more participants, entrepreneurs,
 and speculators, further reinforcing this positive feedback loop. Like bubbles, FOMO
 tends to have a bad reputation, but it's sometimes a healthy instinct. After all, none of us
 wants to miss out on a once-in-a-lifetime chance to build the future.

In other words, bubbles based on technological progress are good because they excite investors into
pouring in money - a good bit of which is thrown away - to carpet-bomb a new area of opportunity and
thus jump-start its exploitation.

The key realization seems to be that if people remained patient, prudent, analytical, and value-
insistent, novel technologies would take many years and perhaps decades to be built out. Instead,
the hysteria of the bubble causes the process to be compressed into a very short period - with some
of the money going into life-changing investment in the winners but a lot of it being incinerated.

A bubble has aspects that are both technological and financial, but the above citations are from the
standpoint of people who crave technological progress and are perfectly happy to see investors lose
money in its interest. "We," on the other hand, would like to see technological progress but have no
desire to throw away money to help bring it about.

Ben Thompson ends this discussion by saying, "This is why I'm excited to talk about new technologies,
the prospect for which I don't know." I love the fact that he's excited by future possibilities and at the
same time admits that the shape of the future is unknown (in our world, we might say "very risky").

Assessing the Current Landscape

Now let's get down to what we used to call "brass tacks." What do we know? First, I haven't met anyone
who doesn't believe artificial intelligence has the potential to be one of the biggest technological
developments of all time, reshaping both daily life and the global economy.

We also know that in recent years, economies and markets have become increasingly dependent on AI:

 • AI is responsible for a very large portion of companies' total capital expenditures.
 • Capital expenditures on AI capacity account for a large share of the growth in U.S. GDP.
 • AI stocks have been the source of the vast majority of the gains of the S&P 500.

As a Fortune headline put it on October 7:

 75% of gains, 80% of profits, 90% of capex - AI's grip on the S&P is total and Morgan
 Stanley's top analyst is 'very concerned'

Further, I think it's important to note that whereas the gains in AI-related stocks account for a
disproportionate percentage of the total gains in all stocks, the excitement AI injects into the market must
have added a lot to the appreciation of non-AI stocks as well.

AI-related stocks have shown astronomical performance, led by Nvidia, the leading developer of computer
chips for AI. From its formation in 1993 and its initial public offering in 1999, when its estimated market
value was $626 million, Nvidia briefly became the world's first company worth $5 trillion. That's
appreciation of around 8,000x, or roughly 40% a year for 26+ years. No wonder imaginations have been
fired.

What Are the Areas of Uncertainty?

I think it's fair to say that while we know AI will be a source of incredible change, most of us have no idea
exactly what it will be able to do, how it will be applied commercially, or what the timing will be.

Who will be the winners, and what will they be worth? If a new technology is assumed to be a world
changer, it's invariably assumed that the leading companies possessing that technology will be of great
value. But how accurate will that assumption prove to be? As Warren Buffett pointed out in 1999, "[The
automobile was] the most important invention, probably, of the first half of the 20th century. . . . If you had
seen at the time of the first cars how this country would develop in connection with autos, you would have
said, 'This is the place I must be.' But of the 2,000 companies, as of a few years ago, only three car
companies survived. So autos had an enormous impact on America but the opposite direction on
investors." (Time, January 23, 2012)

In AI, there are some very strong leaders at present, including some of the world's strongest and richest
companies. But new technology is notoriously disruptive. Will today's leaders prevail or give way to
upstarts? How much will the arms race cost, and who will win?

Similarly, what's a share in an upstart worth? Unlike front runners worth trillions, it's possible to
invest in some would-be challengers at enterprise values in mere billions or even - might I say? - millions.
On June 25, 2024, CNBC reported as follows:

 A team founded by college dropouts has raised $120 million from investors led by
 Primary Venture Partners to build a new AI chip to take on Nvidia. Etched CEO Gavin
 Uberti said the startup is betting that as AI develops, most of the technology's power-
 hungry computing requirements will be filled by customized, hard-wired chips called
 ASICs. "If transformers go away, we'll die," Uberti told CNBC. "But if they stick
 around, we're the biggest company of all time."

Even granting the possibility that Etched won't become the biggest company of all time, if success could
give them a valuation just one-fifth of Nvidia's peak - a mere $1 trillion - what probability of success
would be required to justify an investment of $120 million? Assuming for simplicity's sake that the
investment was for a 100% ownership stake, all you need is a belief that achieving the trillion-dollar value
has a probability of one-tenth of a percent for an expected return of over eight times your money. Who's
to say Etched doesn't have that chance? And in that case, why would anyone not play? The foregoing is
what I call "lottery-ticket thinking," in which the dream of an enormous payoff justifies - no, compels -
participation in an endeavor with an overwhelming probability of failing.

There's nothing wrong with calculating expected values this way. Leading venture capitalists engage in it
every day to great effect. But assumptions regarding the possible payoffs and their probabilities must be
reasonable. Thinking about a trillion-dollar payout will override reasonableness in any calculation.

Will AI produce profits, and for whom? Two things we know little or nothing about are the profits AI
will produce for vendors and its impact on non-AI companies, primarily meaning those who employ it.

Will AI be a monopoly or duopoly, in which one or two leading companies are able to charge dearly for
the capabilities? Or will it be a highly competitive free-for-all in which a number of firms compete on
price for users' spending on AI services, making it a commodity? Or, perhaps most likely, will it be a mix
of leading companies and specialized players, some of whom compete on price and others through
proprietary advantages. It's said that the services currently responding to AI queries, such as ChatGPT and
Gemini, lose money on every query they answer (of course, it's not unusual for participants in a new
industry to offer "loss leaders" for a while). Will the leading tech firms - used to success in winner-take-
all markets - be content to experience losses in their AI businesses for years in order to gain share?
Hundreds of billions of dollars are being committed to the race for AI leadership. Who will win, and what
will be the result?

Likewise, what will be AI's impact on the companies that use it? Clearly, AI will be a great tool for
enhancing users' productivity by, among other things, replacing workers with computer-sourced labor and
intelligence. But will this ability to cut costs add to the profit margins of the companies that employ it?
Or will it simply enable price wars among those companies in the pursuit of customers? In that case, the
savings might be passed on to the customers rather than garnered by the companies. In other words, is it
possible AI will increase the efficiency of businesses without increasing their profitability?

Should we worry about so-called "circular deals"? In the telecom boom of the late 1990s, in which
optical fiber became overbuilt, fiber-owning companies engaged in transactions with each other that
permitted them to report profits. If two companies own fiber, they just have an asset on their books. But
if each buys capacity from the other, they can both report profits . . . so they did. In other cases,
manufacturers loaned network operators money to buy equipment from them, before the operators had
customers to justify the buildout. All this resulted in profits that were illusory.

Nowadays, deals are being announced in which money appears to be round-tripped between AI players.
People who believe there's an AI bubble find it easy to view these transactions with suspicion. Is the
purpose to achieve legitimate business goals or to exaggerate progress?

 Adding to worries, critics say, some of the deals that OpenAI has made with chipmakers,
 cloud computing companies and others are oddly circular. OpenAI is set to receive
 billions from tech companies but also sends billions back to the same companies to pay
 for computing power and other services. . . .

 Nvidia has also made some deals that have raised questions about whether the company is
 paying itself. It announced that it would invest $100 billion in OpenAI. The start-up
 receives that money as it buys or leases Nvidia's chips. . . .

 Goldman Sachs has estimated that Nvidia will make 15 percent of its sales next year from
 what critics also call circular deals. (The New York Times, November 20)

Noteworthily, OpenAI has made investment commitments to industry counterparties totaling $1.4 trillion,
even though it has yet to turn a profit. The company makes clear that the investments are to be paid out of
revenues received from the same parties and that it has ways to back out of these commitments. But all
this raises the question of whether the AI industry has developed a perpetual motion machine.

(On this subject, I've been enjoying articles questioning the ability of people to relate to the word
"trillion," and I think this idea is spot on. A million dollars is a dollar a second for 11.6 days. A billion
dollars is a dollar a second for 31.7 years. We get that. But a trillion dollars is a dollar a second for
31,700 years. Who can get their head around the significance of 31,700 years?)

What will be the useful life of AI assets? We have to wonder whether the topic of obsolescence is being
handled correctly in AI-land. What will be the lifespan of AI chips? How many years of earnings growth
should be counted on in assigning p/e ratios for AI-related stocks? Will chips and other aspects of AI
infrastructure last long enough to repay the debt undertaken to buy them? Will artificial general
intelligence (a machine capable of doing anything the human brain can do) be achieved? Will that be the
end of progress, or might there be further revolutions, and what firms will win them? Will firms reach a
position where technology is stable and they can extract economic value from it? Or will new
technologies continually threaten to supplant older ones as the route to success?

In this connection, a single issue of an FT newsletter briefly mentioned two developments that suggest the
fluid nature of the competitive landscape:

 • A study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and open-source AI start-up Hugging Face
 found that the total share of downloads of new Chinese-made open models rose to 17 per cent in
 the past year. The figure surpasses the 15.8 per cent share of downloads from American
 developers such as Google, Meta and OpenAI - the first time Chinese groups have beaten their
 American counterparts. . . .
 • Nvidia shares fell sharply yesterday on fears that Google is gaining ground in artificial
 intelligence, erasing $115bn in market value from the AI chipmaker. (FirstFT Americas,
 November 26)

Dynamic change creates the opportunity for incredible new technologies, but that same dynamism
can threaten the leading companies' reign. Amid all these uncertainties, investors must ask whether the
assumption of continued success incorporated in the prices they're paying is fully warranted.

Is exuberance leading to speculative behavior? For an extreme example, I'll cite the trend toward
venture capital investments in startups via $1 billion "seed rounds." Here's one vignette:

 Thinking Machines, an AI startup helmed by former Open AI executive Mira Murati, just
 raised the largest seed round in history: $2 billion in funding at a $10 billion valuation.
 The company has not released a product and has refused to tell investors what they're
 even trying to build. "It was the most absurd pitch meeting," one investor who met with
 Murati said. "She was like, 'So we're doing an AI company with the best AI people, but

 we can't answer any questions.' " ("This Is How the AI Bubble Will Pop," Derek
 Thompson Substack, October 2)

But that's ancient history. . . already two months old. Here's an update:

 Thinking Machines Lab, the artificial intelligence startup founded by former Open AI
 executive Mira Murati, is in early talks to raise a new funding round at a roughly $50
 billion valuation, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday. The startup was last valued at
 $12 billion in July, after it raised about $2 billion. (Reuters, November 13)

And Thinking Machines Lab isn't alone:

 In one of the boldest bets yet in the AI arms race, Safe Superintelligence (SSI), the stealth
 startup founded by former OpenAI chief scientist Ilya Sutskever, has raised $2 billion in a
 round that values the company at $32 billion - despite having no publicly released
 product or service. (CTech by Calcalist, April 13)

What's the end state? Part of the issue with AI includes the unusual nature of this newest thing. This
isn't like a business that designs and sells a product, making money if the selling price exceeds the cost of
the inputs. Rather, it's companies building an airplane while it's in flight, and once it's built, they'll know
what it can do and whether anyone will pay for its services.

 Many companies justify their spending because they're not just building a product,
 they're creating something that will change the world: artificial general intelligence, or
 A.G.I. . . . The rub is that none of them quite know how to do it.

 But Anton Korinek, an economist at the University of Virginia, said the spending would
 all be justified if Silicon Valley reached its goal. He is optimistic it can be done.

 "It's a bet on A.G.I. or bust," Dr. Korinek said. (The New York Times, November 20 -
 emphasis added)

The yet-to-be-determined nature of the industry under construction is best captured in remarks from Sam
Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, that have been paraphrased as follows: "we'll build this sort of generally
intelligent system and then ask it to figure out a way to generate an investment return from it."

This should be a source of pause for people who heretofore fully comprehended the nature of the
businesses they invested in. Clearly, the value of a technology that equals or surpasses the human brain
should be pretty big, but isn't it well beyond calculation?

A Word About the Use of Debt

To date, much of the investment in AI and the supporting infrastructure has consisted of equity capital
derived from operating cash flow. But now, companies are committing amounts that require debt
financing, and for some of those companies, the investments and leverage have to be described as
aggressive.

 The AI data centre boom was never going to be financed with cash alone. The project is
 too big to be paid for out of pocket. JPMorgan analysts have done some sums on the back
 of a napkin, or possibly a tablecloth, and estimated the bill for the infrastructure build-out

 would come to $5tn (not including a tip). Who knows if that's right, but we have good
 reason to expect close to half a trillion in spending next year. Meanwhile, the biggest
 spenders (Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon, Meta and Oracle) had only about $350bn in the
 bank, collectively, as of the end of the third quarter. ("Unhedged," Financial Times,
 November 13)

The firms mentioned above derive healthy cash flows from their very strong non-AI businesses. But the
massive, winner-take-all arms race in AI is requiring some to take on debt. In fact, it's reasonable to
think one of the reasons they're spending vast sums is to make it hard for lesser firms to keep up.

Oracle, Meta, and Alphabet have issued 30-year bonds to finance AI investments. In the case of the latter
two, the yields on the bonds exceed those on Treasurys of like maturity by 100 basis points or less. Is it
prudent to accept 30 years of technological uncertainty to make a fixed-income investment that yields little
more than riskless debt? And will the investments funded with debt - in chips and data centers - maintain
their level of productivity long enough for these 30-year obligations to be repaid?

On November 14, Alex Kantrowitz's Big Technology Podcast carried a conversation with Gil Luria, Head
of Technology Research at financial services firm D.A. Davidson, primarily regarding the use of debt in
the AI sector. Here's some of what Luria had to say:

 • Healthy behavior is being practiced by ". . . reasonable, thoughtful business leaders, like the ones
 at Microsoft, Amazon, and Google that are making sound investments in growing the capacity to
 deliver AI. And the reason they can make sound investments is that they have all the customers. . .
 And so, when they make investments, they're using cash on their balance sheets; they have
 tremendous cash flow to back it up; they understand that it's a risky investment; and they balance
 it out."
 • Unhealthy behavior - Here he describes ". . . a startup that is borrowing money to build data
 centers for another startup. They're both losing tremendous amounts of cash, and yet they're
 somehow being able to raise this debt capital in order to fund this buildout, again without having
 the customers or the visibility into those investments paying off."
 • "So there's a whole range of behaviors between healthy and unhealthy, and we just need to sort
 that out so we don't make the mistakes of the past."
 • "There are certain things we finance through equity, through ownership, and there are certain
 things we finance through debt, through an obligation to pay down interest over time. And as a
 society, for the longest time, we've had those two pieces in their right place. Debt is when I have
 a predictable cash flow and/or an asset that can back that loan, and then it makes sense for me to
 exchange capital now for future cash flows to the lender. . . . We use equity for investing in more
 speculative things, for when we want to grow and we want to own that growth, but we're not sure
 about what the cash flow is going to be. That's how a normal economy functions. When you
 start confusing the two you get yourself in trouble."

Among potentially worrisome factors, Luria cites these:

 • "A speculative asset . . . we don't know how much of it we're really going to need in two to five
 years."
 • Lender personnel with incentives to make loans but no exposure to long-term consequences
 • The possibility that the supply of AI capacity catches up with or surpasses the demand
 • The chance that future generations of AI chips will be more powerful, obsoleting existing ones or
 reducing their value as backing for debt
 • Powerful competitors who vie for market share by cutting rental rates and running losses

Here are some important paragraphs from Azeem Azhar's Exponential View of October 18:

 When does an AI boom tip into a bubble? [Investor and engineer] Paul Kedrosky points
 to the Minsky moment - the inflection point when credit expansion exhausts its good
 projects and starts chasing bad ones, funding marginal deals with vendor financing and
 questionable coverage ratios. For AI infrastructure, that shift may already be underway;
 the telltale signs include hyperscalers' capex outpacing revenue momentum and lenders
 sweetening terms to keep the party alive.

 Paul makes a compelling case. We've entered speculative finance territory - arguably
 past the tentative stage - and recent deals will set dangerous precedents. As Paul warns,
 this financing will "create templates for future such transactions," spurring rapid
 expansion in junk issuance and SPV proliferation among hyperscalers chasing dominance
 at any cost. . . .

 For AI infrastructure, the warning signs are flashing: vendor financing proliferates,
 coverage ratios thin, and hyperscalers leverage balance sheets to maintain capex
 velocity even as revenue momentum lags. We see both sides - genuine infrastructure
 expansion alongside financing gymnastics that recall the 2000 telecom bust. The
 boom may yet prove productive, but only if revenue catches up before credit
 tightens. When does healthy strain become systemic risk? That's the question we must
 answer before the market does. (Emphasis added)

Azhar references the use of off-balance sheet financing via special-purpose vehicles, or SPVs, which were
among the biggest contributors to Enron's precariousness and eventual collapse. A company and its
partners set up an SPV for some specific purpose(s) and supply the equity capital. The parent company
may have operating control, but because it doesn't have majority ownership, it doesn't consolidate the
SPV on its financial statements. The SPV takes on debt, but that debt doesn't appear on the parent's
books. The parent may be an investment grade borrower, but likewise, the debt isn't an obligation of the
parent or guaranteed by it. Today's debt may be backed by promised rent from a data center tenant -
sometimes an equity partner - but the debt isn't a direct obligation of the equity partner either. Essentially,
an SPV is a way to make it look like a company isn't doing the things the SPV is doing and doesn't have
the debt the SPV does. (Private equity funds and private credit funds are highly likely to be found among
the partners and lenders in these entities.)

As I quoted earlier, according to Perez (who wrote on the heels of the dot-com bubble), "what enabled the
deployment period were the money-losing investments." Early investment is lost in the "Minsky
moment," in which unwise commitments made in an extended up-cycle encounters value destruction in a
correction. And there are three things we know for sure about the use of debt:

 • it magnifies losses if there are losses (just as it magnifies the hoped-for gains if they materialize),
 • it increases the probability of a venture failing if it encounters a difficult moment, and
 • despite the layer of equity beneath it, it puts lenders' capital at risk if the difficult moment is bad
 enough.

One key risk to consider is the possibility that the boom in data center construction will result in a glut.
Some data centers may be rendered uneconomic, and some owners may go bankrupt. In that case, a new
generation of owners might buy up centers at pennies on the dollar from lenders who foreclosed on them,
reaping profits when the industry stabilizes. This is a process through which "creative destruction" brings
markets into equilibrium and reduces costs to levels that make future business profitable.

Debt is neither a good thing nor a bad thing per se. Likewise, the use of leverage in the AI industry
shouldn't be applauded or feared. It all comes down to the proportion of debt in the capital
structure; the quality of the assets or cash flows you're lending against; the borrowers' alternative
sources of liquidity for repayment; and the adequacy of the safety margin obtained by lenders.
We'll see which lenders maintain discipline in today's heady environment.

It's worth noting in this connection that Oaktree has made a few investments in data centers, and our
parent, Brookfield, is raising a $10 billion fund for investment in AI infrastructure. Brookfield is putting
up its own money and has equity commitments from sovereign wealth funds and Nvidia, to which it
intends to apply "prudent" debt. Brookfield's investments seem likely to go largely into geographies that
are less saturated with data centers and for infrastructure to supply the vast amounts of electric power that
data centers will require. Of course, we're both doing these things on the basis of what we think are
prudent decisions.

I know I don't know enough to opine on AI. But I do know something about debt, and it's this:

 • It's okay to supply debt financing for a venture where the outcome is uncertain.
 • It's not okay where the outcome is purely a matter of conjecture.
 • Those who understand the difference still have to make the distinction correctly.

The FT's Unhedged quotes Chong Sin, lead analyst for CMBS research at JPMorgan, as saying, ". . . in
our conversations with investment grade ABS and CMBS investors, one often-cited concern is whether
they want to take on the residual value risk of data centers when the bonds mature." I'm glad potential
lenders are asking the kind of questions they should.

Here's how to think about the intersection of debt and AI according to Bob O'Leary, Oaktree's co-CEO
and co-portfolio manager of our Opportunities Funds:

 Most technological advances develop into winner-takes-all or winner-takes-most
 competitions. The "right" way to play this dynamic is through equity, not debt.
 Assuming you can diversify your equity exposures so as to include the eventual winner,
 the massive gain from the winner will more than compensate for the capital impairment
 on the losers. That's the venture capitalist's time-honored formula for success.

 The precise opposite is true of a diversified pool of debt exposures. You'll only make
 your coupon on the winner, and that will be grossly insufficient to compensate for the
 impairments you'll experience on the debt of the losers.

 Of course, if you can't identify the pool of companies from which the winner will
 emerge, the difference between debt and equity is irrelevant - you're a zero either
 way. I mention this because that's precisely what happened in search and social media:
 early leaders (Lycos in search and MySpace in social media) lost out spectacularly to
 companies that emerged later (Google in search and Facebook in social media).

Trying to Get to a Conclusion

There can be no doubt that today's behavior is "speculative," defined as based on speculation regarding
the future. There's also no doubt that no one knows what the future holds, but investors are betting huge
sums on that future.

In that connection, I want to say a little about the unique nature of AI. The AI revolution is different from
the technological revolutions that preceded it in ways that are both wonderful and worrisome. It feels to
me like a genie has been released from a bottle, and it isn't going back in:

AI may not be a tool for mankind, but rather something of a replacement. It may be capable of
taking over cognition, on which humans have thus far had a monopoly. Because of this, it's likely to be
different in kind from prior developments, not just in degree. (More on this in my postscript.)

AI technology is progressing at an incredibly rapid clip, possibly leaving scant time for mankind to
adjust. I'll provide two examples:

 • Coding, which we called "computer programming" 60 years ago, is the canary in the coal mine in
 terms of the impact of AI. In many advanced software teams, developers no longer write the code;
 they type in what they want, and AI systems generate the code for them. Coding performed by AI
 is at a world-class level, something that wasn't so just a year ago. According to my guide here,
 "There is no speculation about whether or not human replacement will take place in that vertical."
 • In the field of digital advertising, when users log into an app, AI engages in "ad matching,"
 showing them ads tailored to the preferences displayed by their prior surfing. No humans need
 apply to do this job.

Perhaps most importantly, the growth of demand for AI seems totally unpredictable. As one of my
younger advisers explained, "the speed and scale of improvement mean it's incredibly hard to forecast
demand for AI. Adoption today may have nothing to do with adoption tomorrow, because a year or two
from now, AI may be able to do 10x or 100x what it can do today. Thus, how can anyone say how many
data centers will be needed? And how can even successful companies know how much computing
capacity to contract for?"

With differences like these, how can anyone correctly judge what AI implies for the future?

 * * *

One of the things occupying many observers at this juncture - including me - is the search for parallels to
past bubbles. Here's some historical perspective from a recent article in Wired:

 AI's closest historical analogue here may be not electric lighting but radio. When RCA
 started broadcasting in 1919, it was immediately clear that it had a powerful information
 technology on its hands. But less clear was how that would translate into business.
 "Would radio be a loss-leading marketing for department stores? A public service for
 broadcasting Sunday sermons? An ad-supported medium for entertainment?" [Brent
 Goldfarb and David A. Kirsch of the University of Maryland] write. "All were possible.
 All were subjects of technological narratives." As a result, radio turned into one of the
 biggest bubbles in history - peaking in 1929, before losing 97 percent of its value in the
 crash. This wasn't an incidental sector; RCA was, along with Ford Motor Company, the
 most high-traded stock on the market. It was, as The New Yorker recently wrote, "the
 Nvidia of its day." . . .

 In 1927, Charles Lindbergh flew the first solo nonstop transatlantic flight from New York
 to Paris. . . . It was the biggest tech demo of the day, and it became an enormous,

 ChatGPT-launch-level coordinating event - a signal to investors to pour money into the
 industry.

 "Expert investors appreciated correctly the importance of airplanes and air travel,"
 Goldfarb and Kirsch write, but "the narrative of inevitability largely drowned out their
 caution. Technological uncertainty was framed as opportunity, not risk. The market
 overestimated how quickly the industry would achieve technological viability and
 profitability.''

 As a result, the bubble burst in 1929 - from its peak in May, aviation stocks dropped 96
 percent by May 1932. . . .

 It's worth reiterating that two of the closest analogs AI seems to have in tech bubble
 history are aviation and broadcast radio. Both were wrapped in high degrees of
 uncertainty and both were hyped with incredibly powerful coordinating narratives. Both
 were seized on by pure play companies seeking to capitalize on the new game-changing
 tech, and both were accessible to the retail investors of the day. Both helped inflate a
 bubble so big that when it burst, in 1929, it left us with the Great Depression. ("AI Is the
 Bubble to Burst Them All," Brian Merchant, Wired, October 27 - emphasis added. N.b.,
 the Depression had many causes beyond the bursting of the radio/aviation bubble.)

Derek Thompson, who supplied the quote with which I opened this memo, ended his newsletter with some
terrific historical perspective:

 The railroads were a bubble and they transformed America. Electricity was a bubble, and
 it transformed America. The broadband build-out of the late-1990s was a bubble that
 transformed America. I am not rooting for a bubble, and quite the contrary, I hope that the
 US economy doesn't experience another recession for many years. But given the
 amount of debt now flowing into AI data center construction, I think it's unlikely
 that AI will be the first transformative technology that isn't overbuilt and doesn't
 incur a brief painful correction. ("AI Could Be the Railroad of the 21st Century. Brace
 Yourself." November 4 - emphasis added)

The skeptics readily cite ways in which today's events are comparable to the internet bubble:

 • A change-the-world technology
 • Exuberant, speculative behavior
 • The role of FOMO
 • Suspect, circular deals
 • The use of SPVs

The supporters have reasons why the comparison isn't appropriate:

 • An existing product for which there is strong demand
 • One billion users already (many times the number of internet users at the height of the bubble)
 • Well-established main players with revenues, profits, and cash flow
 • The absence of an IPO craze with prices doubling in a day
 • Reasonable p/e ratios for the established participants

I'll elaborate regarding the first of the proposed non-comparable factors. Unlike in the internet bubble, AI
products already exist at scale, the demand for them is exploding, and they're producing revenues in
rapidly increasing amounts. For example, Anthropic, one of the two leaders in producing models for AI
coding as described on page 12, is said to have "10x-ed" its revenues in each of the last two years (for
those who didn't study higher math, that's 100x in two years). Revenues from Claude Code, a program
for coding that Anthropic introduced earlier this year, already are said to be running at an annual rate of $1
billion. Revenues for the other leader, Cursor, were $1 million in 2023 and $100 million in 2024, and
they, too, are expected to reach $1 billion this year.

As to the final bullet point, see the table below, which comes from Goldman Sachs via Derek Thompson.
You'll notice that during the internet bubble of 1998-2000, the p/e ratios were much higher for Microsoft,
Cisco, and Oracle than they are today for the biggest AI players - Nvidia, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon,
and Meta (OpenAI doesn't have earnings). In fact, Microsoft's on a half-off sale relative to its p/e 26
years ago! In the first bubble I witnessed - surrounding the Nifty-Fifty in 1969-72 - the p/e ratios for the
leading companies were even higher than those of 1998-2000.

In Conclusion

For my final citation, I'll look to Sam Altman of OpenAI. His comments seem to me to capture the
essence of what's going on:

 "When bubbles happen, smart people get overexcited about a kernel of truth," Mr. Altman
 told reporters this year. "Are we in a phase where investors as a whole are overexcited
 about A.I.? My opinion is yes. Is A.I. the most important thing to happen in a very long
 time? My opinion is also yes." (The New York Times, November 20)

But do I have a bottom line? Yes, I do. Alan Greenspan's phrase, mentioned earlier, serves as an excellent
way to sum up a stock market bubble: "irrational exuberance." There is no doubt that investors are
applying exuberance with regard to AI. The question is whether it's irrational. Given the vast
potential of AI but also the large number of enormous unknowns, I think virtually no one can say
for sure. We can theorize about whether the current enthusiasm is excessive, but we won't know until
years from now whether it was. Bubbles are best identified in retrospect.

While the parallels to past bubbles are inescapable, believers in the technology will argue that "this
time it's different." Those four words are heard in virtually every bubble, explaining why the present
situation isn't a bubble, unlike the analogous prior ones. On the other hand, Sir John Templeton, who in
1987 drew my attention to those four words, was quick to point out that 20% of the time things really are
different. But on the third hand, it must be borne in mind that behavior based on the belief that it's
different is what causes it to not be different!

Today's situation calls to mind a comment attributed to American economist Stuart Chase about faith. I
believe it's also applicable to AI (as well as to gold and cryptocurrencies):

 For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is
 possible.

Here's my actual bottom line:

 • There's a consistent history of transformational technologies generating excessive enthusiasm and
 investment, resulting in more infrastructure than is needed and asset prices that prove to have been
 too high. The excesses accelerate the adoption of the technology in a way that wouldn't occur in
 their absence. The common word for these excesses is "bubbles."
 • AI has the potential to be one of the greatest transformational technologies of all time.
 • As I wrote just above, AI is currently the subject of great enthusiasm. If that enthusiasm doesn't
 produce a bubble conforming to the historical pattern, that will be a first.
 • Bubbles created in this process usually end in losses for those who fuel them.
 • The losses stem largely from the fact that the technology's newness renders the extent and timing
 of its impact unpredictable. This in turn makes it easy to judge companies too positively amid all
 the enthusiasm and difficult to know which will emerge as winners when the dust settles.
 • There can be no way to participate fully in the potential benefits from the new technology without
 being exposed to the losses that will arise if the enthusiasm and thus investors' behavior prove to
 have been excessive.
 • The use of debt in this process - which the high level of uncertainty usually precluded in past
 technological revolutions - has the potential to magnify all of the above this time.

Since no one can say definitively whether this is a bubble, I'd advise that no one should go all-in
without acknowledging that they face the risk of ruin if things go badly. But by the same token, no
one should stay all-out and risk missing out on one of the great technological steps forward. A
moderate position, applied with selectivity and prudence, seems like the best approach.

Finally, it's essential to bear in mind that there are no magic words in investing. These days, people
promoting real estate funds say, "Office buildings are so yesterday, but we're investing in the future
through data centers," whereupon everyone nods in agreement. But data centers can be in shortage or in
oversupply, and rental rates can surprise to the upside or the downside. As a result, they can be profitable .
. . or not. Intelligent investment in data centers, and thus in AI - like everything else - requires
sober, insightful judgment and skillful implementation.

P.S.: The following has nothing to do with the financial markets or the question of whether AI is the
subject of a bubble. My topic is the impact of AI on society through joblessness and purposelessness.

You needn't read it - that's why it's a postscript - but it's important to me, and I've been looking for a
place to say a few words about it.

On November 18, a research note from Barclays described Fed Governor Christopher Waller as having
"highlighted how recent stock market enthusiasm around AI has not yet translated into job creation." This
strikes me as paradoxical given my sense that one of AI's main impacts will be to increase productivity
and thus eliminate jobs. That is the source of my concern.

I view AI primarily as an incredible labor-saving device. Joe Davis, Global Chief Economist and Global
Head of the Investment Strategy Group at Vanguard, says, "for most jobs - likely four out of five - AI's
impact will result in a mixture of innovation and automation, and could save about 43% of the time people
currently spend on their work tasks." (Exponential View, September 3)

I find the resulting outlook for employment terrifying. I am enormously concerned about what will
happen to the people whose jobs AI renders unnecessary, or who can't find jobs because of it. The
optimists argue that "new jobs have always materialized after past technological advances." I hope that'll
hold true in the case of AI, but hope isn't much to hang one's hat on, and I have trouble figuring out where
those jobs will come from. Of course, I'm not much of a futurist or a financial optimist, and that's
why it's a good thing I shifted from equities to bonds in 1978.

The other thing the optimists say is that "the beneficial impact of AI on productivity will cause a huge
acceleration in GDP growth." Here I have specific quibbles:

 • The change in GDP can be thought of as the change in hours worked times the change in output
 per hour (aka "productivity"). The role of AI in increasing productivity means it will take fewer
 hours worked - meaning fewer workers - to produce the goods we need.
 • Or, viewed from the other direction, maybe the boom in productivity will mean a lot more goods
 can be produced with the same amount of labor. But if a lot of jobs are lost to AI, how will people
 be able to afford the additional goods AI enables to be produced?

I find it hard to imagine a world in which AI works shoulder-to-shoulder with all the people who are
employed today. How can employment not decline? AI is likely to replace large numbers of entry-level
workers, people who process paper without applying judgment, and junior lawyers who scour the
lawbooks for precedents. Maybe even junior investment analysts who create spreadsheets and compile
presentation materials. It's said that AI can read an MRI better than the average doctor. Driving is one of
the most populous professions in America, and driverless vehicles are already arriving; where will all the
people who currently drive taxis, limos, buses, and trucks find jobs?

I imagine government's response will be something called "universal basic income." The government will
simply mail checks to the millions for whom there are no jobs. But the worrier in me finds problems in
this, too:

 • Where will the money come from for those checks? The job losses I foresee imply reduced
 income tax receipts and increased spending on entitlements. This puts a further burden on the
 declining segment of the population that is working and implies even greater deficits ahead. In
 this new world, will governments be able to fund ever-increasing deficits?
 • And more importantly, people get a lot more from jobs than just a paycheck. A job gives them
 a reason to get up in the morning, imparts structure to their day, gives them a productive role in
 society and self-respect, and presents them with challenges, the overcoming of which provides
 satisfaction. How will these things be replaced? I worry about large numbers of people receiving

 subsistence checks and sitting around idle all day. I worry about the correlation between the loss
 of jobs in mining and manufacturing in recent decades and the incidence of opioid addiction and
 shortening of lifespans.

And by the way, if we eliminate large numbers of junior lawyers, analysts, and doctors, where will we get
the experienced veterans capable of solving serious problems requiring judgment and pattern recognition
honed over decades?

What jobs won't be eliminated? What careers should our children and grandchildren prepare for? Think
about the jobs that machines can't perform. My list starts with plumbers, electricians, and masseurs -
physical tasks. Maybe nurses will earn more than doctors because they deliver hands-on care. And what
distinguishes the best artists, athletes, doctors, lawyers, and hopefully investors? I think it's something
called talent or insight, which AI might or might not be able to replicate. But how many people at the top
of those professions are needed? A past presidential candidate said he would give laptops to everyone who
lost their job to offshoring. How many laptop operators do we need?

Finally, I'm concerned that a small number of highly educated multi-billionaires living on the coasts will
be viewed as having created technology that puts millions out of work. This promises even more social
and political division than we have now, making the world ripe for populist demagoguery.

I've seen incredible progress over the course of my lifetime, but in many ways I miss the simpler world I
grew up in. I worry that this will be another big one. I get no pleasure from this recitation. Will the
optimists please explain why I'm wrong?

Interestingly in this connection, Vanguard's Joe Davis points out that more Americans are turning 65 in
2025 than in any preceding year, and that approximately 16 million baby boomers will retire between now
and 2035. Could AI merely make up for that? There's an optimistic take for you.

HM

 Legal Information and Disclosures